November 23th.1997. 
Title : The Receiving Faith
Scripture Reading : Ephesians 5:22 - 33
  
  I would like to deliver a message titled, "Receiving Faith".
The earth receives everything from the sky. It receives sunlight, rain, and air to let plants and animals grow and bear fruit. Unless there are sunlight, rain, and air, the earth is dead. We also receives everything from God in our Christian lives. God compares our Christian lives to the relationship between a husband and a wife. 
  
  First, let us see the relationship between a husband and a wife, and then that between Jesus and us. What is the obligation of a husband?  He is to give. We misunderstand that a husband receives everything from his wife. The husband should give and he feels good when he gives. He is not happy to receive. The more he gives, the happier he is. A husband should love his wife actively, not waiting for his wife's love. For he feels happy when he loves his wife. Since he is not happy to be loved but to love, he should love his wife more. 
  Ephesians 5: 25 reads, "Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave Himself up for her," and Ephesians 5: 28 says, "In this same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself." Husbands want happiness and God has made them happy when they love their wives. Husbands also feel great when they supply what their wives need. They don't expect their wives to give, but by supplying what their wives need: money, clothes, and cosmetics, they feel happy. We may think that we are happy when we receive. Yet it is not right to husbands. For they are happy to give. Therefore, give your wife more, and you'll be happier. 
  Moreover, husbands will be happy when they preserve their wives.
  Ephesians 5: 29 reads, "After all, no one ever hated his own body, but he feeds and cares for it, just as Christ does the church." Husbands will never be happy if they ignore and mistreat their wives without care. Some husbands go out alone, drinking and smoking, but in fact, they are not happy. I've never seen them happy. He who always thinks about himself with selfishness are filled with unhappiness, but he, who cares for his wife and keeps her from worldly, economic, and physical troubles, will be truly happy. 
  When husbands make their wives happy, they are happy. When wives are joyful and smile, their husbands are so happy in hearts to see them. Otherwise, if a husband ignores his wife, makes her feel unhappy and lords it over her, the husband never can be happy. "About what do you complain, doing nothing at home?" This kind of word makes wives unhappy. Why? Because today, housework is worth of 1 million or 1.5 million won per month. Fixing meal, cleaning home and taking care of children are not only very important but also hard things. Wives don't nag at husbands in vain. When you hire a housekeeper, you should pay her back. Her payment probably ranges from 1 million to 1.5 million won monthly. Therefore, husbands should thank wives for doing housework.
  Some husbands introduce their wives to others "A scullery maid" This can be deep hurt for wives. By doing so, husbands never can be happy. When husbands thank wives saying, "You are going through much troubles at home. Because of you, our home is in safety and happiness. Thank you very much.". This makes both wives and husbands happy. What do you mean by calling your wives "A scullery maid". You must call your wives "Queen" "Number 1". Though your wives were not, your compliment makes both you and your wife happy. When husbands complain of house work, children's affairs, mother-in-law, father-in-law and wives saying, "You are so fool. You know nothing about the way of the world. How can I live with you!", this makes wives feel wretched, finally leading to husbands' wretchedness. Husbands can be happy when they can get trust and respect from wives, and can give wives money, and make conversation with wives. Hence, husbands, who want to be happy, should make wives happy, then automatically, you can be happy. Husbands are happy when they help their wives beautiful and pretty. If a wife looks terrible, messy, and ragged with rough skin, her husband won't want to be with her.  Why do we decorate this altar with beautiful flowers? Because we feel good to see the beautiful altar.  Since a wife is the flower at home, her husband should make his wife take care of her hair, skin, and dress. Then the husband will feel so good. Many of the husbands think that they should receive everything from their wives to be happy, but they are wrong. Since God created a man to give, he is happy when he gives his wife. 
  In this way, the relationship between Jesus and the church is the same as that between a husband and a wife. God created Jesus to work as a husband for the church. That's why our Lord Jesus Christ feels automatically joyful when He does something for the church and His people.  If we think that God gives us only when we strongly tease Him, we misunderstand Him. Our Lord is happy when He gives something to us. He loved us so much that He came to this earth. Since God loves us, He feels great. When He hates us and shows us His wrath, He is not happy. Yet when He loves us and cares for us, He feels so good in His heart. Why did Jesus Christ die on the cross?  Because He is joyful to be broken and shed His blood on the cross to save us. If He had been in sorrow and trial by doing that, why did He do that?  When our Lord shed His blood on the cross to save those who deserved to be abandoned for sins and forgives and makes them righteous, He is happy. When He calls us again to reconcile with God and pours us love and the Holy Spirit, He is happy. When Our Lord drives out the demon and heals the sick: those who have cancer, arthritis, lame, or crippled, He must be so joyful. That's why the Lord wants to heal us.  He is happy when He sets us free from poverty and curse so that we may not worry about what to eat, drink, and wear, but have all enough to do good in everything. Therefore, He is willing to abide in us and bless us. However, if we are not worthy to be blessed, we can't. Although God blessed Korea with great harvest, its people overconsumed as if they had had $20,000 of G.N.P with, in fact, $10,000 of G.N.P, so He can't bless them. They are not ready to be blessed. The Lord is really happy in heart when He blesses us so that we may prosper in good souls and health. He is also joyful when He sends us the Holy Spirit and takes care of us. 
  1 John 5: 8 tells us, "We know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin; the one who was born of God keeps him safe, and the evil one cannot harm him." The Lord is pleased to see happy Christians.  He is happy when His people prosper in good souls and health and praise Him and live with thanks and pleasure. The Lord wishes to give us happiness.  He is pleased to see His people and church glorify Him as beautiful brides. 
  The Bible says in Ephesians 5: 26-27, "to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word, and to present her to Himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless." Likewise, our Lord Jesus Christ is a spiritual husband to His people. So He feels great to give us as our spiritual husband. Right now the Lord actively loves, gives us fivefold gospel and threefold blessings through the suffering of the cross, cares for us through the Holy Spirit, and makes us happy and beautiful. In this way our Lord works for us actively. He is not far away from us and won't flee though we earnestly seek Him. The Lord willingly and actively comes and wants to help us lead successful lives. 

  Secondly, consider the obligation of a wife; that is, we have to think about the duty of Christians. Wives have the obligation to receive. It is not their first duty to give. Wives are supposed to receive something from their husbands. They should always be filled by their husbands. Therefore, if wives want to be filled by their husbands, they always trust and wait. Wives must be patient and wait. When young, I saw my mother wait for my father. Though he didn't come back until 10 and 11 at night, she waited by the prepared dinner table keeping food warm. I couldn't stand waiting because of sleeping so complained, "Mom, why are you waiting without eating?  Let's have it first." Then my mother said, "No, we have to eat together when your father comes back."  At that time I thought that a woman should wait. Since a woman is filled by her husband, she should always wait as the earth waits for the sky. She should trust and wait for her husband. Then she is happy. Yet if she ignores her husband and is aggressive to go ahead alone, she won't be happy. Recently, there are many women who work outside, but they feel not so good. For they are happy when they enjoy what their husbands bring from working. Hence, they will be happy only when they trust and depend on their husbands. They should live with waiting, by trusting, relying on, and obeying their husbands. 
  Ephesians 5: 24 says, "Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything." Wives will be happy when they obey and wait for their husbands. They will also be joyful when they love and respect their husbands. If not, they won't be happy. 
  Ephesians 5: 33 reads, "The wife must respect her husband." However, today the situation is very different.  Husbands just try to take from their wives and wives don't receive from their husbands but just give the husbands. Their roles are totally changed. Recently, a research shows about 46 precent wives those polled, aged from 30 to 50 want to divorce. It translates nearly half wives have no satisfaction of their homes. And the research suggests that about 37 percent husbands have never said to their wives, "I love you." This is very shock for me. How about you? How about the elders? If you are so, please say to your wives today,"I love you." It is heard that 38 percents of wives don't say "I love you," to their husbands. Ladies, please say, "I love you," to your husbands at home from today. It wouldn't be difficult, would it?  We will be happy when we have love and respect and express them with lips. Wives have to ask their husbands for anything they need. Unless they ask they won't receive. And also they must get things with much gratitude. Then their husbands will be greatly pleased. It is the same to the obligation of the Christians. What did the Lord say? He said, "Open your mouth widely, and I will fill it."  It is we who open our mouths, and our Lord who fills it. We must not fill them. Our lives should always be filled by the Lord. He came to this earth from heaven to fill us and shed His blood on the cross. He wants to fill us with forgiveness, love, the Holy Spirit, grace, healing, blessings, and eternal life. That's why we must wait for the Lord and totally trust in Him. We should always expect, wait, trust, and depend on the Lord, Jesus. 
  Psalm 37: 4-5 reads, "Delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires 
of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord; trust in Him and He will do this." Therefore, if we rely on the Lord, leave everything on Him, and wait for Him, He will be in charge of us. What All the churches and their members have to do is fully to obey the Lord. If we obey Him as He wants He will be responsible and fill us. Unless we obey for our will, the Lord can't care for us. 
  We should love and fear Jesus in everything. 
  Psalm 91: 14-15 says, "Because he loves me, says the Lord, I will rescue him; I will protect him, for he acknowledges my name. He will call upon me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him." Here we can see that the Lord is completely active and we are passive: we don't rescue ourselves, but since the Lord reaches out His hands and deliver, exalt, answer, rescue, and honor us, we can't say we lead our lives. When we just look at the Lord, He actively comes, fill, hold, and deals with us.    

  Besides, we should always ask for His help. 
  Jeremiah 33: 3 says, "Call to me and I will answer you and tell you great and unsearchable 
things you do not know." We have to call to the Lord, expecting Him. 
  According to Psalm 50: 15, "Call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you will honor me." Likewise, when we ask for the Lord's help, He will be pleased. Why? Because His mission is to give. When we ask for His help and wait, He rejoices so much,  for He can have an opportunity to play His role to give. When we are blessed by the Lord, we must thank Him with our whole hearts. Today people make the Lord sorry, because they don't thank Him though they are helped and blessed by Him. If a husband buys his wife some dress, jewelry, or present with love, she'd better express her thanks heartily though she
doesn't like it so much. Yet, some wife doesn't thank her husband and rather needs more  in heart and complains about that. Then her husband will be sorry and never buy anything for her. There are many stupid wives who take the present for granted. They should be pleased and rejoice as if they received it for the first time. If you want to receive more again, you have to do that, but if not, you don't have to. It is the same to God. If we receive grace from God, we should greatly thank Him and rejoice it, then He will give you more. When we receive grace from God, we should be pleased with the God's blessings, thank and praise God, then God will give you more grace. The Scripture says, "Therefore, let us praise God always for Jesus Christ, because that is the fruit of lips that testify His name." 
  Matthew 25: 29 tells us, "Everyone who has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.' If we are pleased for what we receive, we'll get more and more. If not, we will be taken from us. 
 
  Thirdly, in this way, wives have had grace from their husbands, and the churches from God. As a result, what should we do? What should wives do? What should the churches do? Wives should receive everything from their husbands, so the husbands should give them love, money, strength, and courage, don't they? With what wives receive, they should take care of their home, husbands, and children. Among 12 million christians, there are about 4 million women christians whose husbands do not believe in Jesus Christ. It means nearly 4 million husbands should be saved. If wives make more efforts, those husbands can be saved. For example, wives! decide to serve your husbands in the same way as attenders do for a king for 30 days. Thinking "I am servant of my husband from now on", serve your husbands. Husbands may ask you, "What happen with you?". Then, answer like this, "While I prayed to God, God told me to do so." And continually serve your husbands like kings. If your husbands get sick, and will die after a week, you will take care of him wholeheartedly, won't you? 
  And, try to understand husband's hobby. Don't say to your husband, when he goes playing golf, " Golf? You always leave me at home and go out alone. I am no better than a widow." On the contrary, when you husband intends to play golf, help him prepare a bag and shoes, and say,"Have a good time!" If your husband asks "What happen?" say to him, "Jesus told me to do so." And let your husband put on a gorgeous clothe, making him look nice.
  If necessary, put a love letter into husband's pocket, reading " I love you so much than ever before. I think you are the best husband." When your husband spots it, he may say, "What is it? It's so childish." But he feels good.
  Many years ago when I traveled with Rev, John Huston to deliver God's gospel, his wife, I remembered, put a love letter in his pocket all the time. After he found it and read it, he always showed it to me. Then I searched out the love letter from my wife. But I could find nothing. Sometimes, do this way. And if your husband questions you saying "What happen?", say like this, " I just do as Jesus Christ commends." Then, your husband will change greatly. And, keep this in your mind. You should panegyrize your husband before children. In the presence of children, say like this. "Your father is the best. I am very happy to have such a husband. Your father has lots of merits." Then, your husband feels happy and is honored by children.
  In addition, give your husband gifts and tonics. And smile to your husband. Surely your husband will ask you, "What happen with you? What changes you?" Then, answer him like this, "Jesus Christ told me to do so. Honey, I have a wish. Can you go to church with me?" Most probably, your husband will go to church. And when he hears the Word of the Lord, he will come to believe in Jesus Christ. When wives are determined to do so just for 30 days, their husbands will be saved.
  Therefore, wives must take care of their homes and husbands with a certain plan. What wives should do for husbands is to take care of husbands, and to give birth to children and raise them well.  Likewise, what should we Christians do?  With the Lord's blessings, we should pay back to Jesus in return, by serving the church and others, and doing for Him. 
  Romans 12: 11 says, "Never be lacking in zeal, but keep your spiritual fervor, serving the Lord." And we have to make many spiritual children at the church. We should be eager to evangelize so that many people may be saved. 
  According to 2 Timothy 4: 2, "Preach the Word; be prepared in season and out of season; correct, rebuke and encourage---with great patience and careful instruction." We have to care for believers and teach them so that they may not be tempted but be raised up well by encouraging and praying for them.  The Lord is to give and we are to receive. We must not forget that. As a servant looks up at the hands of the his master and a maid looks up at her master's hands, so we should look up at the Lord, wait, and ask Him. Our God always wants us to open our mouths widely, look at, trust, rely on, obey, be faithful, thank Him, so that all may go well with us as our souls get along well in good health. As husbands fill their wives, so the Lord is the God who fills us.  Now Jesus is present and reaches out His hands and says, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest."  We do not fill ourselves, nor work by ourselves. The Lord works and wants to fill us. So we should be passive to open our hearts widely and  receive the Lord, by depending and thanking Him. Then He will fill us. We should confess, "Lord, we trust you, rely on you, obey you, thank you, love you, and wait for you."  And then if we ask Him, He will fill us. Our Lord is like a good husband. In the same way, we should be good husbands and wives, so that many souls may be saved and enjoy richly the kingdom of heaven. 

  -prayer-

  Abundant in love and holy Our Father. You so love us that give us Your Only Son, Jesus Christ. And Jesus so loves us that He shed His blood on the cross. We thank Jesus Christ, who are our husband and whose role is to give us. Help us believe in and rely on You, and obey, seek, love, thank and wait You so that we may enjoy everything from You as good wives. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen
