December, 28th, 1997.
Title : This Treasure in Jars of Clay
Scripture Reading : 2 Corinthian 4:7-11

 (part 1)Today, I would like to deliver a message titled, "This Treasure in Jars of Clay."
According to Genesis, "God formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living being." Man can be compared to a jar of clay. That is, he is a jar made of clay. Man himself doesn't mean anything. Since he is a jar which contains something, what is important is what is in it. At first, God was in Adam but after he sinned and fell, God was no longer in him but the devil. Since then, man has become a jar of the devil. He had to submit to the devil. However, 2,000 years ago Jesus came and paid the penalty for man's sin on the cross and disarmed the devil. That's why if a sinner accepts Jesus as Savior, he is forgiven and the devil in him will be driven away and instead Jesus will come in. Therefore, the Bible says we have our treasure Jesus in jars of clay. What will happen to our lives if we have the treasure Jesus in us? 

 First, the scripture says, "We are hard pressed on every side, but not crushed."  Since Jesus is in us, we are not crushed though we are hard pressed on every side. What does it mean that we are hard pressed on every side? People are constantly surrounded and attacked by sin and become the captives to that. Yet, those who receive Jesus as Savior, though sin surrounds them, destroy the sin with the power of forgiveness and love due to the treasure in them. 
 Hebrews 9: 22 says, "The law requires that nearly everything be cleansed with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness."  Since Jesus in us has shed blood, no sin before the blood can condemn us. 
Hebrews 10: 10 reads, "By that will, we have been made holy through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once for all." Although sin presses us, we will always destroy the sin with holiness which comes from Jesus in us. The Scripture says, "Through Christ Jesus the law of the Spirit of life set me free from the law of sin and death." Because freedom and liberty always overflows from us, we are not crushed due to Jesus in us, though sin presses us. 
 Hatred and enmity surrounds us. We continue to argue with and hate each other and become enemies. Yet, the love of Jesus in us breaks all the hatred and enmity so that we may not be captives to them. 
 In Romans 5: 8, the Bible says, "God demonstrates His own love for us in this: While we were still sinners, Christ died for us."  The love of God overflows in Christ and it destroys hatred and enmity around us. 
(part 2)Ephesians 2:12-14 states, " But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far away have been brought near through the blood of Christ. For He Himself is our peace, who has made the two one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility." 
 When we depend on Jesus who breaks the wall of enmity and brings us peace and love, any hatred and enmity will be destroyed before us. You may have seen a movie "Ben Hur" on TV on Christmas. Ben Hur was a man who was going to take revenge. He saw Jesus die on the cross, asking God to forgive those who crucified Him, instead of cursing and condemning them. Ben Hur said, "The sword has fallen from me." If the love of Jesus Christ overflows, the sword of hatred and grudge will fall from us. For the love of Jesus Christ urges us. 

 Moreover, though disease presses us, we don't have to fear it, because Jesus Christ the treasure heals us. 
 (part 3)It is written in Malachi 4:2, " But for you who revere my name, the sun of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings. And you will go out and leap calves released from the stall."
 Since He heals us, we can defeat all the sickness and won't be crushed. Since Christ took up our infirmities and carried our sickness, if He is in us, we canbreak the wall of our disease with His power. Though the curse surrounds us, we can't fear. For the blessing of Jesus overflowing from us melts the curse. 
  Galatians 3: 13-14 tells us, "Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us." Jesus is in us so the curse will be melt by the power of Jesus though the curse presses us. When the fear of death overwhelms us, the power of death will be defeated by the power of Jesus' resurrection in us. 
 2 Corinthians 5:1 says, "Now we know that if the earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God, an eternal house in heaven, not built by human hands." Although death comes to hurt us, we are not worried and afraid, for Jesus, who has given us an eternal house, is in us. 
 I Corinthians 15: 54-57 reads, "When the perishable has been clothed with the imperishable, and the mortal with immortality, then the saying that is written will come true: 'Death has been swallowed up in victory.' 'Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?' The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God! He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ." Since our treasure Jesus is in us, we are not defeated though the fear of death overwhelms us. 
 As the scripture says, if Christ is in us we are hard pressed on every side, but not crushed. Why? Because all surpassing power is from Jesus in us. When we call to Jesus, pray in His name, rely on, and trust Him, He will reveal Himself to us, destroy all the powers pressing us on every side, and give us a victory. 

 Second, we are perplexed,  but not in despair. At times we are so distressed that we can't even take a breath. It is the time when the Israelites were confined in the Red Sea after they got out of Egypt. The Red Sea was before them and the Egyptian soldiers behind them. They were perplexed and there was no way out for them. They were like the mouse in the pot. All of them cried and lamented. Then Moses prayed and God made a way in the Red Sea. When we are perplexed, we are not in despair, for God is with us and He makes a way out. This treasure is in us who are jars of clay and the treasure Jesus tells us, "I am the way." Therefore, if Jesus is in us in our distress and we trust, pray, and count on Him, He will marvelously make us a way. That's why we are perplexed but not in despair. Sometimes we are misunderstood and slandered by our neighbors, and we are so stifled that we can't breathe. Jesus in us was misunderstood, slandered, crucified, and risen from the dead. If we depend on Him, we can overcome any slander and have a victory, for Christ controls our hearts. 
 1 Peter 2: 19-21 says, "It is commendable if a man bears up under the pain of unjust suffering because he is conscious of God. But how is it to your credit if you receive a beating for doing wrong and endure it? But if you suffer for doing good and you endure it, this is commendable before God. To this you were called, because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example, that you should follow in His steps." When we believe in Jesus and live rightly but people misunderstand and slander us so we are in despair, we should think of Jesus. He was already slandered and falsely crucified, yet trusted God, and finally was risen and wiped out all the misunderstanding and slander, and brought a great victory. Since this Jesus is in us, He will remove all the misunderstanding and slander soon, so that we may be shown as a bright light. Therefore, we are perplexed, but not in despair, for Jesus is in us. We can't be discouraged, for the glory of Christ's resurrection eliminates all the problems and makes us a way. 

 Third, we are persecuted, but not abandoned. Jesus was abandoned and crucified by people, but God raised Him and let Him sit at the heavenly throne. If He is in us, since He was already persecuted, overcame, and changed it to the glorious victory of resurrection, He will also change all the persecutions to glory at last.
 Hebrews 12: 2 says, "Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God." If we are not ashamed of  persecution, look to the Lord, and keep our faith, Jesus in us will let us sit at the heavenly throne with victory because of the persecution. What does the Bible say? "You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows." Persecution will be changed to a chance to give us a new life in which our cups overflow. The Lord is with us, changing the persecution to glory. 
 Paul and Silas were imprisoned while preaching the gospel in Philippi, but prayed and praised God during the night, and God shook the land with earthquake, making everybody's chains loose and all  the prison doors opened. Paul and Silas became free and the Roman officers repented and came back to the Lord. Paul and Silas went back to the church and got a credit. We know that in history, an individual and a country that persecuted the church were all abandoned, but the church and its saints were not abandoned. 
1 Peter 4:12-14 make us sure of that fact: "Dear friends, do not be surprised at the painful trial you are suffering, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed  when His glory is revealed. If you are insulted because of the name of Christ, you are blessed, for the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you." The Bible tells us that if we are insulted because of the name of Jesus Christ, we have a great blessing, privilege, and glory. When we are persecuted, the Holy Spirit is with us and God will give us fantastic glory later. 
  In history, the tenth Roman emperor persecuted the church. The emperor and Rome disappeared, yet the church and its saints still remain. (part 4)In the same way, Hitler, who persecuted churches, put saints in prison and martyrized them, and his administration disappeared, but churches and saints survived. Even though Japanese colonialism persecuted Korean churches, forced churches to be shut down, put great many saints in prison and inflicted sufferings on them, now, Japanese colonialism disappeared, while churches in Korea have been grow vigorously. Wherever they go, communists forced to shut the door of churches, put saints in prison and shouted out saying, "God is dead!". But communism disappeared, while the persecuted churches have been grow and rampant. They were not persecuted but not abandoned, for Jesus Christ who had all the authorities over heaven and earth is in us. Therefore, though we are insulted, we will never be abandoned if we rely on Christ. In any persecution, we should look to Jesus, pray, trust, thank, and praise. 
 
 Fourth, the Bible says that we are struck down, but not destroyed. The enemies struck Jesus on the cross, but He was not destroyed but risen. People thought that they killed Jesus by crucifying Him and the gospel of Christ would be still. Jesus died on the cross, but three days later He was risen by God and sent as the Holy Spirit that the gospel might be spread all over the world. Since Jesus who was struck down but not destroyed is in us, we have a great power due to Christ. Although people intend to destroy us, we will not perish. Why? Because Jesus, who was struck down but overcame it and resurrected, is in us. That's why trials and troubles may destroy us without Jesus, but we are empowered by Him so that we may overcome any suffering. Our country is almost destroyed, yet we feel easy about it, for we have Jesus in us. (part 5)In the clay jar of Korea, there are about 50,000 churches, 100,000 servants of the Lord and 12,000,000 saints nationwide. So, even though we are cut down like with the Korean War and the IMF crisis, Korea wasn't destroyed. Rather did Korean people stand up again, for Jesus Christ was among us. If Jesus is in us, we are struck down, but not destroyed. 
 Hebrews 13: 5-6 tells us, "Keep your lives free from the love of money and be content with what you have, because God has said, 'Never will I leave you; never will I forsake you.' So we say with confidence, "The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?" 
 Romans 8: 31-32 says, "What, then, shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare His own Son, but gave Him up for us all--how will He not also, along with Him, graciously give us all things?" 
 Romans 8: 37 reads, "In all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us." If we have Jesus Christ in jars of clay, God is with us and helps the jars not be destroyed. (part 6)Because we have Jesus Christ in us, we survived this crisis. If there had been no Jesus Christ in Korea, Korea would have been found bankrupt, its imports and exports would have been stopped so that because of the lack of oil, the operation of power plants, electricity, factories, elevators and automobiles would have stopped. As a result, all Korean people would be jobless, go hungry and become thieves and Korea would be out of order. Then, at this snafu, South Korea would kneel down before North Korea without any fight. This kind of danger had come to us. However, from this crisis we were saved. We must know the fact. We were saved from very horrible crisis. It could be more wretched than the Korean War. Nevertheless, Jesus in us helped us, lest we fell down by receiving the IMF bail-out program and avoiding the crisis of bankruptcy. Receiving the bail-out program is very sad thing, but very fortunate thing. Why did Korea, which had been developing, fall into such a tragic condition? We should have deep thought with our hands on the chest, kneel down before God and repent. We should not forget that the lives of Christians are not up to them, but to Jesus who is in them. The Bible says, "to show this  all-surpassing power is from God and not from us." Therefore, there is no reason to be haughty or arrogant. We should always look to God and kneel down before Him. The Bible says, "Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and  perfecter of our faith." Jesus is our pride, faith, true Spirit, and hope. We rise up in the name of Jesus Christ and are pressed on  every side, but not crushed. We are perplexed, but press it and win in the name of Jesus. We are persecuted, but not abandoned and rise up like a honeysuckle in the name of Jesus. Due to the name of Jesus  Christ, we are struck down, but not destroyed and rise up again like a phoenix. What Jesus is in us means that the source of power is in us. This is the difference between believers and unbelievers. We should know that unbelievers do not have the treasure, but believers have it in them. 
 You don't have religion in yourselves, forms, nor rituals, but Jesus, who died, was risen, and has all the authorities over heaven and earth, is in us. Therefore, you are those who have the treasure. Jesus is the  eternal God, omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent. Though we are pressed, perplexed, persecuted,  and struck, we don't have to be afraid. Why? If we only rely on Jesus, He who has overcome all these things will do something tremendous. He will break all these things and give us the final victory and glory. Though we can't see, hear, nor feel anything in total darkness, we must not look at the circumstance. The great Jesus is not far from us, but right in us. The Lord says, "On that day you will realize that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you. I will not leave you like orphans, but I will come back to you. Surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age."  We can't see and touch Christ, but Jesus is certainly in us as the Holy Spirit. Therefore, let us confess all our sins to Jesus Christ, leave our lives to Him, trust Him, pray without despair, and go forward! The Lord tells us, "My righteous one will live by faith. If he shrinks back, I will not be pleased with him. If you can? Everything is possible for him who believes. All will be done as you believe. If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, 'Move from here to there' and it will move. Whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours." As long as this Jesus is in us, we are hard pressed on every side, but not crushed; perplexed, but not in despair; persecuted, but not abandoned; struck down, but not destroyed. Why? Because Jesus is in us. 
  (part 7) -prayer-
 Abundant in love and holy our Father, we thank You for being with us and equable forever, even though history and this world change. We thank Jesus Christ, who was torn His body, shed His blood and said, "Even though a mother forgets her baby, I will not forget and abandon you.", for being with us and in Korea. This treasure, we have in a jar of clay. Ability is not in us, but in You. Father, when we believe in, count on, thank, praise and hold hands with Jesus, nothing can knock us down, for Jesus fought and subdue the devil. We know that our Lord, who is everlasting winner, the Lord of Lords and the king of kings, is among us and rules over our destinies and circumstances. We thank You for making many nations to help us and helping Korea avoid this crisis. Thank You for helping Korea not be bankrupt. This is just the same as the Lord's miracle that You split the Red Sea and made a way through the Red Sea when the Israelite faced difficulty and were encircled on every side. Father, who makes ways, please continue to make ways for us. Guard us to Your way. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.   
