December 7th, 1997
Title : The Wisdom of Surviving Economic Crisis
Scripture Reading : Matthew 6:19-33

(part 1) I would like to deliver a message titled, "The Wisdom of Surviving Economic Crisis."
Capable parents prepare the best for their children's future including their primary, middle, high schools, and universities since they are born. Because parents love their children. The Bible says, "God is love and He so loved the world that He gave His only Son."  Therefore, we can commonly think that God must prepare everything for His children. God surely has ability and will to do that. When we live in economic crisis, we have to deeply understand this providence of God and live in relief. 
  First, our God is the One who provides. His name "Jehovah Jireh" means "I am the Lord who provides." Before the Lord created man in this world, He had made the environment for man to live in. He made light and expanse in darkness, land, trees and plants bearing fruit, the sun, the moon, the stars, birds in the sky, fish in the seas, beasts, and insects. Likewise the Lord prepared everything, and made Adam and Eve. He also made the Garden of Eden for them and filled it with beauty. 
  On the first day when Adam and Eve were made, they asked God, "Lord, this is the first day when we are born. What should we do?" The Lord might have answered, "Adam and Eve, I've made everything for six days before you are born.  Look at the sky and see if there is anything you need.  Look at the land which is all prepared. Look into the sea which is full. I made all for you. What you have to do is to trust and obey me."  God didn't make us to sweat, take trouble and suffer. Since man disobeyed God and was driven to the world, he had to live with sweat, pains, trouble and tears. However, the Lord wishes us to enjoy with faith and obedience what He has prepared.   Let us think of the time when the Lord brought the Israelites out of 430-year slavery in Egypt. The Lord prepared the place like Eden flowing with milk and honey and made everything while they were being delivered. When the Israelites had no way because of the Red Sea, the Lord had made a way for them. When they couldn't drink the water of Marah because it was bitter, the Lord prepared a tree and made them throw a branch of the tree into the water, which became sweet. When 3 million Israelites wandered in the wilderness for 40 years, the Lord prepared manna and quail so that they could not starve but survive. At times He stored water in a rock and gave it to them.  There was nothing that God didn't prepare. God is omniscient, omnipotent & omnipresent, so He can prepare anything for us. 
  What did God do to save us? He say that we can be saved by moral deeds with our efforts? If so, there is no one who can be saved by work. The Scripture says, "All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God." Since all of us commit sins and live in them, we can not stand before God by ourselves. Yet, God has prepared a way for us to be saved. "God so loved the world that He gave His one and only Son, that whoever believes in Him shall not perish but have eternal life." God made Jesus Christ born through a virgin Mary 2,000 years ago and called Him at 33 to be an offering and shed blood on the cross at Calvary, so that all our sins might be eliminated through Him. Through Jesus, God destroyed sin, reconciled us with Himself, removed sickness and curse, and defeated death and hell. When Jesus died on the cross, He said, "It is finished." The Lord has prepared salvation for us and promised us, "whoever believes in Me shall not perish but have eternal life," though we sinned and should have been abandoned. God has predestined that we might be saved through faith and obedience.  Without predestination, God never calls us. Even when we leave this world, the Lord has prepared heaven. 
  John 14: 1-3 says, "Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God; trust also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, I would have told you. I am going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am." Therefore, our God prepares everything for our lives. 
  The Bible says, "Before we were born in this world and before a day passed, our whole lives had been recorded in the Book of Jehovah."  That's why when our God calls each of us to be saved through Jesus Christ, He has already prepared all for our lives. We can not say that we believe in God by our own will. For the Scripture says, "There is no one who can come to me unless the Lord calls him." God calls you to believe in Jesus Christ and be saved, for He loves you and has prepared everything for you. 
  That's why though we face serious economic trial and trouble, there is one thing we have to know: "Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me." Just as the Psalmist confessed, we should know that we shall not be in want, for Jehovah is our God. Although any circumstance comes to us, God prepares everything for us. 

  Therefore, today secondly we should listen to what the Lord rebukes us. He tells us, "You of little faith, why are you worried?" What we have anxiety and concern means that we don't trust and depend on God, but try to solve our problems with our wisdom, knowledge and ways and feel that we are unable. If we are powerful, we don't have to fear enemies. If we are capable and potent so that we can solve any problems, we don't need to worry. Yet, because we are weak and can't overcome our trouble by ourselves, we continue to be nervous, uneasy, anxious and concerned. (part 2)Hence, "You of little faith, why do you worry?" said the Lord. Before we believe in Jesus Christ, we live by the five senses. we are surrounded by earthly things; what we see, hear, smell, taste and touch. But, to us, who believe in Jesus and are saved, God gives one more thing. That is faith. The scripture says, "But my righteous one will live by faith. And if he shrinks back, I will not be pleased with him."and "'If you can?' said Jesus. 'Every thing is possible for him who believes'" Therefore today those who believe in Jesus should not rely on sense. Though we can't see, hear, nor feel anything, we have to live with faith. Since God has given us faith, we should look at God and lead our lives with faith. Those who don't believe in God have no faith. They depend on their senses and decided their lives according to what they see, hear, smell, taste, and touch. However, we don't lead our lives with that, but we live with faith. Since we believe in God who created heaven and earth and everything and omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent, we must not worry. Though the wind blows in every direction, we don't worry, for we are with God who is stronger than that. In the Bible, the Lord doesn't want us to be concerned saying, "Why do you worry about what to eat?" Matthew 6:25-26 reads, "Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink; or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more important than food, and the body more important than clothes? Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they?" Here the Lord compares our lives to birds saying, "Look, you don't think of birds as valuable, do you? Yet God feeds a bird though it doesn't farm, doesn't He? Think of yourselves. Are you less valuable or more than the bird? Which does God consider is more precious, birds or you? We are made in the image of God. We are God's precious children who are bought by the price of Jesus' body and blood. How can we be less valuable than birds? We are more valuable than them, aren't we?  Then the Lord says, "I feed the birds and will I not feed you? Why do you worry?  You of little faith, where did you put your faith? Who do you think I am? What do you think of me? Why don't you believe?" Like this, the Lord rebukes us. (part 3) If we are concerned about and can solve problems by ourselves, it is no problems. 
  It is written in Matthew 6:21, "who of you by worrying can add a single hour to his life?" 
  We cannot make ourselves grow by worrying. Recently, I saw an article in the Sinangge that there is a machine with which people can make themselves grow. They say people can grow by 2cm by using that machine. I think that's a trick. If God does not allow people to grow, how can a machine make people grow by 2cm? After finding this ad in the magazine, children, who are short, are demanding to buy them the machine. Someone called me to ask where they can buy the machine. 
  The Lord said, "Do not worry about what we shall clothe." 
  Matthew 6:28-30 states, "And why do you worry about clothes? See how the lilies of the field grow. They do not labor or spin. Yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all his splendor was dressed like one of these. If that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, will He not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?" 
  Like this, God rebukes us. "Compare yourselves with grass! Is grass more precious than you? Don't I consider you more precious than grass? I clothe even grass. Take a look at lilies in the field. How beautiful they are! However, the most-splendid-Solomon's clothe was not better off the lilies. God clothes grass in the field, which exists today but will be thrown into fire tomorrow, much more you. When Adam and Eve were driven out of Eden due to sin, God clothed them with the skin of the animal. God doesn't want us to be naked, so He says, "I will clothe you. Do not be concerned. Why do you worry?"  The Lord says, "My children who believe in me and are saved, do not act like the gentiles: do not act like those who don't believe in Jesus nor are aware of God. 
  According to Matthew 6: 31-32, "So do not worry, saying, 'What shall we eat? or 'What shall we drink? or 'What shall we wear?' For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them." (part 4)Economic crisis approached us. The IMF era came to Korea so that we might lose our economic sovereignty and follow the requirements of the IMF, an international body. Dollar hits the ceiling, and raw material cost soars. And as a result, a variety of difficult situations are coming to us; consumer price is up, while our income's down, many people lose their jobs and companies belly up.
  However, in the midst of this crisis, we should not fear this reality. The mort dreadful thing is a sense of fear in our hearts. It is high time that we should not worry, fear, frustrate and have grudges against one another, and should not call others to account. We must jump to our feet and try to solve these problems. In our lives, it is next to impossible for us not to have problems. Problems beyond numbers come to us. We must go ahead getting through the problems, not being depressed by them. We should not bite, tear, fight each other, and should not grieve.  Do not act like the pagans. Since they don't believe in God, they are separated, argue, worry, are anxious, uneasy and nervous. However, we should do as our heavenly Father's children. He knows that we need all those things in our lives. Psalm 34: 9-10 says, "Fear the Lord, you His saints, for those who fear Him lack nothing. The loins may grow weak and hungry, but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing." We should know that God is with us and should not act like the gentiles but believe that God controls and cares for us. Look at the Israelites who got out of Egypt.  God was with them and filled all they needed. Who had known that manna and quail would fall from the sky beyond our reason and sense and provide them with protein? Those who believe in God must not think, speak and act. 
  In I Kings 17: 15-16, in Israel, there was a drought without rain for three years and a half, and all the crops were burned and people had no water to drink. The servant of God, Elijah, came to a widow in Zarephath and asked her to get me bread and water. She said, "I have no bread and water, but I'm going to make cookies with just a little flour I have so that I may eat it  with my son and die."  Elijah said, "Then make bread for me first."  The widow had faith so she made bread and gave it to Elijah.  After he ate the bread and drank water, he said, "The jar of flour will not be used up and the jug of oil will not run dry until the Lord gives rain on the land." Sure enough, while the widow and her son and Elijah were at the house, the jar of flour was not used up and the jug of oil did not run dry until the drought ended. The God of them is your God. He never changes. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Though in our country the jar of flour ran out and the jug of oil almost ran dry, if we come to Jehovah, worship and trust in Him, the jar of flour and the jug of oil will not run out. (part 5) What will we fear while God is with us, even if the IMF crisis comes to us and put a harsh economic bondage on Korea? The bible says that Man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Therefore we should look up at God, be strong and bold, and not be negative, discouraged, and destructive. We should be positive, active, and creative to overflow with faith, hope, and love. 

  Third, then what shall we do?  When we are in distress, we have something to do.  In this hard time, God has told us something to do: "Seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all will be given to you as well." All we have to do in this trouble is seek first His kingdom. His kingdom means heaven. Since heaven is not visible, we can not explain it definitely. However, the church is the embassy of heaven. Today where is heaven? It is in the church, where the glory and power of God exist. Therefore concretely visible heaven is the church on the earth. The glory of heaven is on Korea, for it has 50,000 churches.(part 6)As long as the glory of heaven is on the Korean Peninsula, Korea cannot be collapsed. In North Korea, there is no foods, water and hope because heaven is not in the North. Only Kim il-sung and Kim jung-il, the idols of North Korea, are there. Even though in South Korea there are the same economic crisis and hardship as those of North Korea, we cannot be in despair for heaven is in the South. There are 50,000 churches in the South. A church is an embassy of heaven. It means the heavenly kingdom is in South Korea.    
  In the Bible God says, "Seek first heaven, and I will give you all." In trouble we should seek His kingdom, then how can we seek the kingdom? To keep the Sabbath Day is to seek His kingdom. To listen to the Word of God and worship Him on the Lord's Day is to seek His kingdom. The Scripture says that we should work for six days and worship God and rest on the seventh day. Isaiah 58: 13-14 reads, 'If you keep your feet from breaking the Sabbath and from doing as you please on my holy day, if you call the Sabbath a delight and the Lord's holy day honorable, and if you honor it by not going your own way and not doing as you please or speaking idle words, then you will find your job in the Lord, and I will cause you to ride on the heights of the land and to feast on the inheritance of your father Jacob.' The mouth of the Lord has spoken." Today if we keep the Lord's Day holy and worship God, we seek His kingdom. Then the Lord has promised that He would not forsake but care for this nation with His power. 
  To seek His kingdom is not to steal the tithe. We should offer a tithe of our income to God and prepare our hearts heartily. (part 7)The worship, which does not bears our earnest hearts, is not a real worship. If we do not seek God with our whole hearts, it is not to seek God. When we visit our parents, we do not go with empty hands. In the same way, when we seek God and His heavenly kingdom, we should not go with empty hands. We must not steal the tithe of God.
  Malachi 3:8-9says, " "Will a man rob God?" Yet you rob me "But you ask, how do we rob You-because you are robbing me."
  God said, if we rob God, we are under a curse. Today, Why do you think does the U.S become a great and strong nation? Have you ever thought of the reason the U.S became so strong that it controls the whole world's economy and military power. What is the reason? It is because Americans have worshiped, served and offered their tithe to God. 
  I have always remembered the story of (?)Callgate, the famous American enterpriser. Haven't you ever seen many Callgate products, such as toothpaste and cosmetic. When he was 12, his father called him and said, "I can't support you and your brothers any more. I am so exhausted. Our family members are many, while my income is small. Now, go your own way." So, after graduated from a primary school, he packed his belongings and said farewell to his parents with shedding tears. When he wandered around a quay, a captain approached him and asked, "Why are you crying and wandering here?" He answered, "I left my parents and I am seeking a job." Then the captain said, " I will show you a way which bring you victory. The way is to believe in God. If you repent, accept Jesus, become a child of God and offer tithe to God, then you will be famous, receive God's blessings, and through you many people will get blessings."
Before long, he became a worker in a factory which produced soaps and candles. Whenever he got his payment, he saved his tithe in a bank account and offered it to God monthly. Some time later, the owner of his factory passed away and Callgate acquired the factory. There he continuously worked hard and offered his tithe to God. As a result, his company grew larger and larger so became one of the world's largest companies. Nowadays, people all over the world use his products. 
  If we robbed God of His tithe and were under a curse, our toilsome works would be useless. When the heavens pour down rain, the earth can produce its fruits. In much the same way, when God blesses us, we can bear fruits. South Korea is not under a curse. God is blessing our nation. This year, God gave our nation richer harvest than ever before. And a great deal of rain poured down in winter so that every reservoir was filled with water. How big blessings they are! When God curses, He does not give water and foods like in North Korea. We ourselves incurred this current crisis. That is not by God, but by us. There are 50,000 churches and 100,000 servants of God in the South. After hearing their prayer, God is giving blessings to our nation. Therefore, when we seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, God will resurrect all these things. That's why we must not steal the tithe before God. Where we eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood at the communion service, we should give our tithes. 
  We should not be idle talking with the Lord. We should be full of the voice of God by hearing and reading Word, and not neglect praying. God does want to talk with us. Parents want to talk with their lovely children, don't they? God wants to talk with you and me. That's why we should listen to His Word and not be lazy praying to Him all the time. 
  James 4: 2-3 says, "You do not have, because you do not ask God. When you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures." If we pray and ask, God will answer. 
  Moreover, we should live as an evangelist. In season or out of season, we introduce Jesus to those we meet and urge them to accept Him. 
  According to Daniel 12: 3, "Those who are wise will shine like the brightness of the heavens and those who lead many to righteousness, like the stars for ever and ever." Likewise, if we evangelize and eagerly serve the church, the heavenly kingdom, we seek His kingdom. When we keep the Sabbath holy, give tithe, listen to Word, pray, evangelize eagerly, and serve the church, the heaven, we seek His kingdom. 
  To seek His righteousness is to admire and seek Jesus Christ, the righteousness of God. To love and praise and be with Jesus is to seek His righteousness. We should always think that Jesus is with us and ask ourselves, "What shall I do now? Am I all right if I waste time with debauchery, overconsume, and commit sin?" Always thinking that Jesus is with us, we should ask ourselves, "What shall I do?" Then we seek His righteousness. If we think Jesus is really with us, we won't steal, be lustful in debauchery, waste in luxury, nor live for greed. 
  Therefore we should earnestly seek His kingdom and His righteousness. There is a priority to do in this world. His kingdom and His righteousness should be the first priority. That is, we should seek the spiritual thing more than anything else. We should seek first heavenly God and His Son Jesus Christ. If we seek His kingdom and earnestly admire and seek His Son Jesus Christ and live with Him, God promised us in the Bible that all would be added unto us. He will give us all including what to eat, wear, and drink. (part 8)God will add all our necessities so that we may clear our debt from the IMF and gain economic independence. The harder our situations, the more we must invest in heavenly things. Then, material abundance will be given to us.
 I'm going to finish this sermon after a story. I  heard this story at the crusade in  Philippines. A farmer went out to the field and said, "My field, my field, I have trouble in great debt, so please, grant me rich harvest this year." Then the field laugh and said, "Master, please, plant more, and I will let you reap more." The master said, "I have nothing to plant, so I can't, but give me great harvest."  The field said, "The more you are in trial, the more you should plant, and I will let you reap more so that you may pay off your debt and be rich. 
  Our God is like this field. You and I should plant the seed of faith. we should plant the spiritual things a lot. we should take more time to seek His kingdom and His righteousness. If we plant spiritually, then He will fill us with material things as well. 

  (part 9) -prayer-

  Almighty and holy our Father God, even though economic crisis and every hardship come to us, we are not afraid, for we do not live by the five senses, but by faith, the sixth sense. What will we fear when You, who created the heavens, the earth and everything in it, and rise Jesus from the dead, and create anything from scratch, are with us? What will You, who did not save the only Son and gave the Son Jesus to us, not give us? God rebuked us saying,"You of little faith, you of little faith" Help us take our chins up, look up at God with faith and live by faith. Help us seek first Your kingdom and righteousness. Help us keep Your Sabbath holy, offer tithes, hear Your word, pray and evangelize. And help us serve our church, the body of the Lord, love Jesus and live with Jesus. 
  We believe God will add all things to our lives through miraculous power. We thank You for Your caring for our whole lives through Your help which is beyond our imagination. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
