May 10th.1998.
Title : The Way of Blessed Home
Ephesians 5:22-6:4

(part 1)I would like to deliver a message titled, "The Way of Blessed Home"
May is the month of Home. In May everything grows up freshly and the earth is filled with life and it is the season of hope, youth and joy. (part 2)But, recent circumstances have not been so. In the sudden economic crisis striking the Korean Peninsula, great many people have lost their jobs, companies have declared themselves bankrupt, and 30 people on average have been killing themselves daily in despair and hopelessness. Such tragedies are being produced in this country. Many homes are being shaken and trembling in the terror of poverty. However, the source of our lives lies in our homes. Our homes are the only place where we can heal our pains. From our family, we can also receive hope, understanding and comfort. Hence, the worse the situations are, the more we need to realize the importance of our homes and families.
 
  First, we need to see about the beginning and condition of home. Everything has the source. The source of our home lies in God. God who made man said that it was not good for him to be alone. Today there are many people who live alone. However, in the Bible when God created man, He said, "It is not good for man to be alone." So it must not be good to live alone. 
  In Genesis 2:18, The Lord God said, "It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him." 
  Genesis 2:21-22 says, "The Lord God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep; and while he was sleeping, He took one of the man's ribs and closed up the place with flesh. Then the Lord God made a woman from the rib He had taken out of the man, and He brought her to the man." God didn't make man at random, but created him in the likeness of Himself. Therefore, man is not only the most valuable to God, but also he was made as a bowl to hold His glory. God is the God of trinity: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are the one God with fervent love including three characters. That's why He is not alone. God has a fervent fellowship of love in His trinity. Some religion says its god is the only god. If God had lived alone in the universe in the everlasting history, He would have been an awful one. If He had lived alone, He wouldn't have known how to give and receive love. Then He might have been ferocious and stubborn. Therefore, the god who lives alone forever is the devil. But our God is the God of trinity. He is the one God  but there are the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit in Him and they become one perfectly in love. Since there is a relationship with fervent love among the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, our God is the God of marvelous grace who gives and receives love and makes everything with love. Since we were created in the image of God, He never wanted us to be alone. It is the will of God that man has a home to share love with his family members and it is the life of man who was created in the likeness of God. 
  Here is a condition of a home in Genesis 2:24, "For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and they will become one flesh." The Bible says that a man has to leave his parents before he makes a home. Though he lives with his parents, he should be independent of his parents mentally. (part 3)Today, much unhappiness is resulted from dissention between a mother-in-law and a daughter-in-law. The conflict between them leads to the biggest unhappiness in home. However, God said clearly in the bible that to make a home, a man should leave the control and interference of his parents and be independent. If a man live with his parents for economic reason even after he marries, he should be out of his parents' mental control to make his own home. This is God's will. Why do people turn away God's will and bring continuing conflicts into their home by not leaving their parents? 
  And the bible said, "a man will be united to his wife by law." Recently, there are many wives and husbands who are not united legally and separate at random. God does not want people to live such way.
  According to Matthew 19:4-6, "Haven't you read," He replied, "that at the beginning the Creator 'made them male and female,' and said, 'For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh'? So they are no longer two, but one. Therefore what God has joined together, let man not separate." God directly works for marriage. That's why the importance of marriage is that God Himself works for it and man will not separate it. For marriage we should be united in life. That means we should live without insisting only our own will and ours. (part 4)Whenever I went to America or Europe, I experienced cultural gap, for there are clear distinction between husbands and wives there. Many pastors in America or Europe, I know, do not give their salaries to their wives. I asked them once, "Why do you not give your salaries to your wife?" And they answered, "My salary is mine, why am I supposed to give it to my wife?" So they give money to their wives only when wives need and ask for money. Not knowing this fact, while preached, I said, "Since I have married. I've never seen envelop of my salary". People there didn't seem to understand my situation. Whenever buying anything, they keep a record of who bought what, as it would facilitate the divorce proceedings should that be necessary. Living in such a way, they can live together, but cannot be united. A man and a wife should live together as one being, destined to share everything, including good things and even bad things. Therefore, each life should be also united to one. The Bible says that we should not deprive each other. Recently I heard that there are many married couples in their 30s who sleep separately. 
  1 Corinthians 7:5 says, "Do not deprive each other except by mutual consent and for a time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer. Then come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control." Therefore, we can have right homes with these instructions of God. 
 
  Secondly, there are the conditions for married couples. The couples have their own duties and responsibilities. These days people insist that husbands and wives have the same rights with the theory of "the equality of a man and a woman." But as a matter of fact, a man and a woman are not the same. They look different, don't they? The process of their lives and their characters are different, aren't they? They can't be the same. We have the same right as human being, but we have different duties and responsibilities in our lives. Therefore the Bible clearly tells us the conditions for the married couples, "Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord." Then you may ask, "How imperial and slavish life is it? Why should wives submit to their husbands as to the Lord?" That doesn't mean that wives are lower than their husbands in rights but they have different obligations and responsibilities in their lives. If we compare a home to a cart, one should pulls it forward and the other should push it from back. Both of them should not pull or push it. For a good home life, God says, "Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord." And He says, "The husband is the head of the wife." Why? That's because God made Adam first and then Eve. Adam was born earlier than Eve. Adam was not created for Eve, but Eve for Adam. Husbands were not made for wives, but wives for husbands. Therefore, there is a certain order of creation. You know, normal arms and legs are subject to their brain. If arms and legs don't obey their brain, it means, "paralyzed." Likewise, wives should submit to their husbands for good homes. 
  Ephesians 5:22-24 states, "Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, His body, of which He is the Savior. Now as the church submit to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything." Hence, as the church obeys our Lord Jesus, so wives should obey their husbands. If wives challenge their husbands and refute them and compete with them, it will be the first basic factor to break their home. If we ask husbands when they hate their wives most, they say when their wives disregard and resist them without regarding them as their own husbands. Therefore, wise wives never disregard their husbands, but they think of their husbands as the head of their home and give them good advice and admire them as good companies in lives. So wives should be alway hidden behind their husbands and support them behind and make them good, then the wives will be good, too. I once read what a husband wrote. He retired by force because of economic trouble under IMF. He was discouraged as a father. Some of his friends committed suicide due to the same reason. He also felt like killing himself many times. He had no place to go. One day when he was leaving home for hiking with depressed heart, his wife handed a piece of yellow paper to him. So he went to a mountain and opened the paper. It said, "Honey, though you lost a job, have no money, succeed, or fail, you're my husband. Wherever you are, I will be with you. Wherever you go, I will go. Wherever you live, I will live. So do not be discouraged at all, for you must be a head for our home. We will serve you and live with you. After reading the paper, the husband was moved so deeply that he cried and realized that he was acknowledged by his wife. He was encouraged. He said to himself, "Although I lost my job without money and failed, yet I have a wife who considers me as a head and leader, so I can do anything! I need to even sell bread on the street." He was a director of a department for a company. From that moment, he began to bake bread in the tent on the street and sell it. He was not discouraged but proud, thinking, "I have a wife who loves and respects me and children. Why don't I do anything to support them? I am proud!" When I read this story I was deeply moved. When the husband is disregarded and mistreated, he readily gives up his life. Yet if his wife acknowledges and respects him in any trouble, he is willing to overcome anything hard and dangerous. Therefore, wives should respect their husbands. Then, the Bible says, "Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church." (part 5)A wise wife seldom disregards her husband. To compare her husband to others in negative way, saying, "You are useless, ugly, and shorter than other," is to destroy the pillar of her house. A wife should honor her husband. When we honor the Lord, we serve, worship and praise, don't we? A wife should became a wise one, one who gives thanks and compliments to her husband, and esteems him. What good is it for a wife to dishonor her husband? All husbands live on the joy of having their wives honor them. Therefore, it is good for a wife to serve her husband. "You are good and excellent. You are a man of ability. I'm very happy to have you as my husband!!." Why do you not do so? It doesn't cost you anything. Compliment your husbands. Such a little word can give your husband courage, strength and pride, making him brave.
Today, in the IMF crisis husbands are in fear that they might lose their jobs. At this very moment, wife's support gives strength to husband, allowing him to overcome a variety of hardships without discouragement.    
  Next, the bible said a husband should love his wife in the manner Jesus loved churches. 
  According to Ephesians 5:25, "Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave Himself up for her." When we say, "Love," We usually think that we have to receive. Then we are wrong. Because we were loved by our parents, we always think that we should receive when we think of love. In this way, we expect to be loved by our wives in our marriage lives. But we are terribly wrong. The relationship between parents and children is different from that between husbands and wives. The husband should love, not be loved. As Jesus Christ broke His body and shed His blood to give us salvation, so we  should treat our wives in the way Jesus did. Therefore, we must love our wives. Then how should we love them? The Bible says we should love our wives as we love our bodies. People care for their bodies very much. They give a great interest in their good shapes by feeding, wearing, washing, relaxing and enjoying. 
  Ephesians 5:28-30 says, "In this same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. After all, no one ever hated his own body, but he feeds and cares for it, just as Christ does the church--for we are members of His body." Therefore, the love of husbands is to deeply care for their wives; to be interested in happiness of their wives; to talk with them; to supply what they need; to take care of them. Husbands should be proud of their wives before people. If husbands criticize their wives, the husbands are not qualified.
  Ephesians 5:25-27 reads, "Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave Himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word, and to present her to Himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless." As Jesus tried to make the church beautiful, holy and glorious, so husbands should make their wives beautiful, glorious and blameless. Before the family-in-law, friends, relatives, husbands should be proud of their wives. Do you know when wives hate their husbands most? They hate their husbands most when they feel empty in marriage lives, when their lives are different from what they expected, and when their lives look meaningless. Next, wives hate their husbands when they criticize their family- in-law: wives' mother, father, sisters and brothers. Therefore, we should not be hated by our wives. We need understanding, compassion and love without ceasing for marriage lives. For there is no perfect husband and wife. Only God and angels are perfect and man is imperfect. If we look at the mountain at a distance, it looks so beautiful with green trees and flowers. But go to the mountain and see that. It doesn't look so good with stones and rotten things. How ugly it is! When we look at the mountain and man from afar, they look so beautiful, but if we look at them closely, we find many defects and faults. Likewise, if we live with our spouses, we see all of their imperfect characteristics. We often quarrel together due to different characters and come to think why we got married with these kinds of men and women and we are frustrated in our marriage lives. However, we can't change our spouses by blaming or force. We may think that we can change our wives with threats and violence, but it doesn't work well. Neither can wives change their husbands. When they were born, God gave them their own characters. Those characters won't change by any threat. Only God can change them, but man never can do that. Therefore, all we have to do is understand our spouses, have pity on them, and love them. (part 6)Whenever I presided over wedding ceremonies, I used to imagine a scene. In the scene, a husband and a wife run together, with one's left leg tied with other's right leg. We sometimes see such a game in elementary school playgrounds. People who can run the game harmoniously are rare, for one of them always wants to go ahead. As a result, both of them come crashing down to the ground, losing the game. Once their legs are tied together, they should comply with each other setting aside greed. Without going ahead and going behind, they should understand each other and take pity on each other, making good race. 
Likewise, a marriage life is to keep pace with each other. An excellent husband alone can't lead his wife, neither can a wise wife lead her husband. They should understand, compassionate and love, and try to keep pace. No benefit is in conflict between couple. In other kind of fighting, a winner and a loser exist. But in the fighting between couple, there is neither a winner nor a loser. A winner only can eat sipid food and a loser gets indignity. The best way is not to fight. 
  For 35 years of my marriage life, I have fought many times. However, whenever I fought, I lost. When I did have an upper hand with my wife, I lost less. In contrast, when I won, I lost much. Now, in my sixty I finally got wisdom, so I never fight against my wife. Why should I suffer loss by fighting? I just shut my mouth and humble myself. If an entrance is small, I should lower myself not to hit the door. Were your wife narrow-minded, you should be more open-minded. Then, everything is O.K. Not to fight by harmonizing with each other brings happiness to the home.
  1Peter 4: 8 states, "Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins." Therefore, we should cover our spouse's sins, accept his or her fault regarding it as our destiny and try to keep step with our spouse. And, upon that, we should ask earnestly God for help through prayer and supplication.  
 
  Thirdly, there are conditions between parents and children. Children were born in the love of their parents. They are the products of the love of their parents. If parents have their children, the children ties themselves with their parents with love; their father with mother as a string of strong love. In fact, married couples have no blood relation, it will be the same though they live 100 years. We live together with different people through marriage. However, if we have children, our love for them will be so strong that the children will be of their father and mother. The love for the children ties the relationship of the parents strongly. Parents should raise their children with the instructions of the Lord. Children are the heritage from the Lord. They are not ours. They are the heritage God gave us so we have the responsibility to bring them up well and offer them to God. 
  We read in Ephesians 6:4, "Fathers, do not exasperate your children; instead, bring them up in the training and instruction of the Lord."  
  Psalm 127:3 says, "Sons are a heritage from the Lord, children a reward from Him." That's why children do not belong to us so we must not control them by our own will. According to the other day newspaper, someone killed his child and buried him in his yard and didn't feed another child of six years old, who looked three years old for hunger. The beasts don't do so. We should not take care of our children too much and neither should we love them without any reason. And we must not mistreat children.
  Proverbs 22:6 tells us, "Train a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not turn from it." Parents should instruct their children with the love of God and the word of Christ and show them the good example so that they may grow up in accordance with the example. How the father and mother live brings their children a deep impression. Above all, the most important thing to children is to make them believe in Jesus and love God. It is also most important for us to tell them the meaning, purpose, value and source of life for their mental lives. If we just let them study a lot without any meaning, purpose and value of life, they will become a clever devil. Therefore, the most important thing to raise our children is in spiritual life. While our children stay with us we'd better make many memories of love with them. We should not leave them alone. We have to have time with them by talking and spending vacation so that they may have a lot of memories with us. So when they have grown up, they will remember the memories with us and have strong love with us. Unless they have these memories they will easily forget their parents when they become adults. Try to make unforgettable memories with your children. Parents must not use their children as the instruments to fill their parents' desire, but help their children grow up according to the talents God gave them. Parents must not force their children to be a minister, judge, public prosecutor, or president. people have their own characters and talents from God when they are born. Parents should develope them. Besides, children have conditions toward their parents. The Bible says, "Children, obey your parents in the Lord." Ephesians 6;1-3 says, "Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother-- which is the first commandment with a promise--that it may go well with you and that you may enjoy long life on the earth." Parents can be said the substitute of God the Father. For Adam and Eve were made by God and then the next children were to be born by Adam and Eve instead of God. That's why parents bear children and raise them instead of God. Therefore, if we disregard our parents, it is the same as we disregard God. If we honor our parents, it is like we honor God. Those who do not honor their visible parents can't honor invisible God. (part 7)In the Bible, God said that He would make us prosperous and enjoy long life on earth, if we honor our parents. How strongly God wants us to do so! Among the ten commandments, the four of them are for the relation between God and His people, and the six of them are concerning the relation between people. And the most important of the six commandments is to "honor your parents." In this vein, the beginning of all morality and ethics starts from honoring our parents first. If we ignore filial duty, all morality and ethics will be destroyed from beginning. Therefore, "honor your parents"is recorded on the bible as the basic ground of morality and ethics. God said that He would inflict on us His punishment when we did not keep the ten commandments, except this commandment "Honor your parents". He promised to reward us if we observe this commandment. He suggested the condition of blessings that we would be prosperous and enjoy long life in this world, if only we honor our parents. That indicates how deeply God wants us to honor our parents. Therefore, if you want to be prosperous and live long, honor and respect your parents. No other complicate method is needed. Do not seek other ways to live long and prosper. Just honor your parents, then God will open the heavenly door and pour His blessings on you, making you prosper and live long. God's words will be come true without exception. 
  Happiness is developed from harmonious relations among family members. If our home is broken and destroyed, we feel deserted in the streets in cold winter. The harder our circumstances are, the more strongly we should play our roles so that we may keep our homes well. If we have a clear understanding about the relationship between husbands and wives, parents and children and become one with the love of Christ, we can easily overcome any storms or disasters in our circumstances. We can pull our homes forward and push from back so that we may be understood, comforted and healed and live together in our home. There is no other place like home where we can understand, sympathize, love and be healed unconditionally. We are criticized, slandered and hated for  competition in other places. Yet, our home is different. There we can get understanding, pity, healing and grace with a great love. Through today's lessons from the Lord, may you be great husbands and wives; great mothers and children, so that you can make a beautiful and glorious home and live in a paradise on this earth!

(part 8) -prayer-
  Almighty and holy Father. is there any place where we can be comforted and relax? A husband and a wife, parents and children, this unit is tied with strong bonds, love, compassion and understanding. As patriarchism becomes diluted, our society and nation grow weak. In this economic crisis, fathers don't know when they may lose their jobs and are troubled Please, help our homes to be united in love, and help us pull ahead and push behind. Help us support and comfort each other, share burdens together. Help our homes overflow with love in Jesus Christ, and pour Your blessings on our homes. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.
