Sunday, September 27th 1998
Title : The Kingdom of God Is Within You
Scripture Reading : Lk 17:21

  When we see on TV the people dying of sickness and hunger in many African countries, we can't help feeling furious due to the tragedy brought on by human greed. If we had been born in those countries, how miserable our lives would have been!  Just thinking of that makes us feel so awful. Compared with it, we feel that we live in such a nice country and we should thank God that we were born in this country. 
  Jesus said, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near." He also said, "People will say, 'Here it is,' or 'There it is,' but the kingdom of heaven is within you."  If we accept Jesus as our Savior, the kingdom of heaven is in us and we become heavenly people of God. What is the kingdom of heaven that the Lord has brought us? What type of life can we have in the kingdom of heaven?

  First, God created heaven and earth for us. He first made light; on the second day, the sky; on the third day, the sea, the land, plants and trees bearing various kinds of fruit; on the fourth day, the sun, the moon, and the stars; the fifth day, the birds in the sky and the fish in the sea; on the sixth day, animals and creatures that move along the ground; on the last day, He made Adam and Eve in His image and gave them this beautiful world as a present. This world that God made looked so good to Him. (part 1) Buddhism considers this world meaningless. Buddhists say everything in this world is meaningless. So Buddhism is said to be the religion with a doctrine which holds meaninglessness; everything will be finally destroyed. But Christianity considers the world good,  in that God thought this world not meaningless but very good. God said the first day was good, and the second, the third...even the sixth day was good as well. And on the seventh day, God said everything He had created was very very good. This world and everything in it is in no way meaningless. God was pleased with all creatures at the mere sight of them. 
  Today, we have many leading fashion designers, yet God is indeed the origin of fashion. Take note of all kinds of flowers God created. Take a look at various kinds of birds in the air and the colors of them. God created fish in many varieties and multitudes of colors. Therefore, our God made this world so various and beautiful. And then He made Eden which was a small heaven. God was the King and Adam and Eve were  His kingdom as His people. God directly ruled over Eden.
  In Genesis 2:8-9, "Now the Lord God had planted a garden in the east, in Eden; and there He put the man He had formed. And the Lord God made all kinds of trees grow out of the ground---trees that were pleasing to the eye and good for food." The Garden of Eden was so beautiful and it was no problem to eat, wear and dwell in; and there was no resistance, harm, sickness, death, sorrow, nor parting. Our God made a perfect world overflowing with beauty and life. He gave Adam such a gorgeous glory. The Lord blessed Adam and said to him, "Be fruitful and increase in number, fill the earth and subdue it." 


  Secondly, strangely, things have changed. Today this beautiful world that God made is filled with sorrows, diseases, curse, poverty, wars, and death! How in the world can we explain this tragic change?  Who made the world like this? We can see Adam and Eve hand the glory of this splendid world over to the devil. The Lord said to them, "You are free to eat from any tree in the garden; but you must not eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil, for when you eat of it you will surely die." Since God is Sovereign, He has the privilege to decide both good and evil. No one can touch His privilege. If we decide good and evil, it is like we compete with God and His sovereignĽî. It is impossible for two sovereigns to work together. 
  Yet, Adam and Eve were tempted by the devil. They disobeyed God and ate from the tree of knowledge of good and evil to be like the sovereign God. (part 2)Hence, after Adam and Eve's disobedience against God they became the servants of the devil. They gave themselves over to the devil as slaves, after believing the devil's word. And as a result, the glory of all the earth given to them was shared with the devil. By Adam and Eve's sin and disobedience against God this superb world God created as well as themselves came to belong to the devil who became the king of this world. 
  Let's think about it. What a shame it is that the devil occupies everything on earth which God had created for Adam and has been enthroned as king and god over it. 
  We read in Luke 4:5, "The devil led Him up to a high place and showed Him in an instant all the kingdoms of the world."  
Who on earth handed the glory of this world over to the devil? God did not. It was Adam and Eve themselves who did it. Since the devil became this world's king and earthly god, he began to rebel against God with idolatry and unfaithfulness. 
  It is written in 2 Corinthians 4:4, "The god of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers, so that they cannot see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is image of God" 
The devil thoroughly prevented Jesus Christ's glory and stirred us to be unfaithful and to adulterous. He granted authority and wealth to his followers. With wealth, unrighteousness, falseness, infidelity, secularity, avarice, arrogance and hatred, the devil tightly bound up all people in the world. The devil endows temporary authority and wealth on people, only to bind them with secularity and make them his slaves. During time of Adam and Eve, the devil lorded it over the world and rebelled against God: stealing, killing, and destroying. However, the devil's reign and his kingdom cannot last forever. When the given time comes, they will be destroyed.
  1Corinthian 15:28 states,"When He has done this, then the Son Himself will be made subject to Him who put everything under Him, so that God may be all in all." 
  Revelation 20:10 states, "And the devil, who deceived them, was thrown into the lake of burning sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown. They will be tormented day and night for ever and ever." Likewise, the devil at this time will be expelled from this world and thrown into the lake of burning sulfur and tormented there for ever and ever.

  Then thirdly, when will God's salvation be accomplished on this earth in reality? The Bible says, "If the Son of God appears, He will destroy the devil." God Sent His Son, Jesus Christ, 2000 years ago to establish the kingdom of heaven again on this earth.(part 3) God's only Son was born to the virgin marry through the ability of the Holy Spirit: spent 33years on this earth as a man and was willingly nailed to the cross to save us.
  The soul which commits sin must die. Because of the sin by Adam and Eve, people were handed over to the devil. To deliver people, someone must remove the sin. Yet, no one can redeem himself. He who wants to strike the sin must be sentenced and die. A debtor cannot pay for another's debt. Only he who has no debt can clear another's debt. So Jesus Christ was born to the virgin marry by the Holy Spirit and took all our iniquities to the cross, paying our debt, destroying the devil's power and authority and establishing the kingdom of heaven on earth. Jesus Christ was sent by God for our sake and underwent all disgrace and indignity which human beings can have spiritually and physically. When you commit sin, you feel guilty, don't you? Jesus underwent all that shame and guilt and was nailed to a cross. God judged you and me through Jesus Christ. He punished you and me through Jesus Christ. Through Jesus Christ, God saved all our lives. Jesus paid the penalty for our sins on the cross crying "It is finished,"  and He died. He was buried and on the third day, He rose from the dead as  King of kings and Lord of lords. Jesus through His death on the cross established the kingdom of heaven on this earth. The Lord said, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." Through the cross, Heaven was brought by the Lord to this earth. 
  What sort of heaven did the Lord establish on this earth? He has made the kingdom of heaven with forgiveness and righteousness. Through Jesus, any sin can be forgiven and we can obtain righteousness from God. That's why regardless of sins and falsehood that we have committed, deserving to be abandoned, if we turn back and believe in Jesus, God will cleanse us as if we had never sinned and He will accept us as righteous in the kingdom of heaven. That heaven was not in the past, nor in the future, but it is now so that sinners can receive forgiveness and righteousness. 
  Furthermore, the kingdom of the fullness of the Holy Spirit and holiness has been made available on this earth. If we come in the name of Jesus Christ, we can be filled with the Holy Spirit. We held the 18th Pentecostal World Conference through the Holy Spirit. In 1901, a divinity school woman student first received the Holy Spirit while praying at the school and now 98 years later more than 500 million people are baptized with the Holy Spirit! Likewise, the Holy Spirit didn't come only in the past and future, but presently the Holy Spirit is working in this earth. The Holy Spirit sets us free from sin and death. The Holy Spirit comes and drives out the worldly things, destroys the work of the devil, and helps us live with holiness in accordance with God's will. (part 4)Now, cry out to God for the Holy Spirit here, and the fullness of the Holy Spirit will come to you.
  Jesus Christ, our Lord brought healing to us through the cross. God judged illness through Jesus Christ. He destroyed our infirmities on the cross. Hence, through Jesus Christ, our diseases were all cured and our fragility disappeared. Jesus Christ, nowadays, brings a care-free, disease-free nation to us in the name of Jesus. Therefore, when we pray in the name of Jesus, God's ability appears, the demons are expelled, our diseases are cured, our infirmities disappear so that we are filled with health and life.
  And Jesus Christ made possible the blessing of Abraham in this world. Through Jesus Christ, God judged the curse of poverty, dispair and disappointment resulting from the rebellion of Adam and Eve. Through the latest Adam, Jesus Christ, God judged on the cross, setting us free and pouring out His blessings on us. The very blessed nation of Abraham is established on earth through Jesus Christ.
  Therefore, if we come with faith through Jesus, we will experience the tremendous miracle of freedom from the curse. Moreover, the Lord has brought us the kingdom of eternal life. Through the cross of Jesus Christ, death was abolished and the hell was destroyed. Through the resurrection of the Lord, death from darkness to light and hell to resurrection. Now, in Jesus Christ, we have the resurrection, heaven and eternal life. When the Lord comes again, we will live forever in heaven without tears, worry, anxiety, separation, sickness, and mourning. Jesus came to this earth with this kingdom of God and this heaven is working on this earth through the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit says, "From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has been forcefully advancing, and forceful men lay hold of it." If we go forward with faith, we can have this kingdom of heaven. If we repent and believe in Jesus, heaven will come into us and the Son of God will become our King. 
  The king of the kingdom that Jesus has built is Jesus Himself and we are His people and He rules over the kingdom. Jesus becomes a Shepherd for those who serve Him and He makes everything go well with us in good health and abundant life. The Lord is with us,  and cares for us, instructs us, fills us with joy, peace and hope, so that we may grow up as His people to serve God well. 
  The Bible says, "The kingdom of heaven holds righteousness, joy and peace." 
  Romans 15:13 tells us, "May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in Him, so that you may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit." In this way, the Lord fills us with abundant spiritual blessing. Since Jesus came, 2000 years ago, the kingdom of heaven has been within us so that people couldn't say, "The kingdom of heaven is here or there." Please, say to your neighbor now, "The kingdom of heaven is within you." 
  We are the people of the heavenly kingdom. We belong to Korea in body, but heaven in spirit. Jehovah is our Father, Jesus is our King, the Holy Spirit is with us as our comforter, and the heavenly host and angels are guarding us. In other words, our Father God through  Jesus is controlling, managing, and caring for us. That's why we can pray to God in Jesus' name and God takes care of us with His almighty power and authority. We have this relationship with God. You and I belong to the kingdom of heaven. Almighty God cares for us. That's why the Lord says, " 'Do not worry what to eat, what to wear, or what to drink.' For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them. But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will also be given to you." 
  Therefore, if the kingdom of God is in your heart and in the church, we are ready to  enter heaven in the future.

  Fourth, what we must be aware of is that we are in the middle of terrible spiritual warfare. The devil who received all the splendor of this world from Adam and Eve lost his dominion and authority through Jesus' death on the cross. Since the devil lost all his power, he was driven out from his position as earthly king. Why? Because he occupied this earth by the fall of Adam and Eve. Yet the devil resists so horribly. The Lord is fighting this battle through the Holy Spirit and you. He wants to destroy the kingdom of the devil and bring His Kingdom into your heart, your home, our church, our society, and the world. However, the devil makes every effort not to be expelled. 
  The Bible says,  "Be self-controlled and alert. Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Resist him, standing firm in the faith." We are fighting with the devil. Our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers,  the authorities, the powers of this dark world and the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Satan works with fallen angels and demons and disguises himself perfectly to resist us. Therefore, we should take the glory of kingdom of heaven back from him. We have to take righteousness, godliness, healing, blessing, and the heavenly glory. We must advance to take the kingdom of God. We are struggling with the devil now. We should fight by studying the word, praying and having faith. The word of God is sharper than the two-edged sword. If you speak the word, the two-edged sword will come out from your mouth and will pierce the heart of the devil. "The word of God is living and active. Sharper than any double-edged sword, it penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow."
  Therefore, we must be eager to study the word; keep that in mind, pray to be filled with the Holy Spirit, advance with faith to resist the devil, and take what the devil has occupied and fill us with heavenly kingdom. Since Adam, the whole world had been under the evil one. but, 2000 years ago, the Son of God came to this earth and planted the heavenly kingdom in the midst of the devil's kingdom by suffering on the cross. The devil is still the king to unbelievers. He is their god. According to the devil, unbelievers never know God and they never think of heaven. They just follow the world. However Lord has planted the kingdom of  heaven within you in this world of evil. Since Jesus is in your heart and you serve God and have the fullness of the Holy Spirit according to the word, you are the very kingdom of God in this world. 
  You're the kingdom of God. The Lord adopted you as priest, His chosen people. The devil is being driven out and Jesus' Kingdom is being established. If we each evangelize one person, establish a church, and pray hard to resist the devil, the heavenly kingdom will be enlarged even greater. We believers, are the heavenly people and the kingdom of heaven is in our hearts. Jesus, the heavenly King, leads us, controls our lives, and through us saves sinners, establishes the heavenly kingdom, drives out demons, heals the sick,  destroys curses, and pours His glory upon us. So do not seek the kingdom of God somewhere else.  We can't say, "The kingdom of heaven is here or there." For the kingdom of God is in you through Jesus Christ. May you overflow with the fruit of heaven in your lives. 

(part 5)-Prayer-
  Our holy and glorious father, God, we thank you for allowing us to have the kingdom of God in our hearts for forgiveness, righteousness, the fullness of the Holy Spirit, holiness, healing, blessings and everlasting life through the Passion. Our father, the devil continuously tries to prevents us from having Your kingdom. Please, come to our aid so that we can be armed with prayer and faith, defeat the devil, enjoy all your blessings, and share them with others.
In the midst of this secular world, within us there is the kingdom of heaven. There is the kingdom of heaven right hear at Yuido Full Gospel Church. The Lord is the very kingdom of heaven. The kingdom is just the moving heavenly nation. Our father, when we the saints go home, Your kingdom of heaven goes with us. When we go shopping, Your kingdom of heaven is there as well. Therefore, may the Lord's glory overflow through these kingdoms of heaven day by day. May the Lord's ability and glory overflow to all of Your saints, Your kingdoms. In the name of Jesus we pray, Amen.    
