November 15th.1998.
Title : God's Will and Sound Mind
Scripture Reading : 1 Thessalonians 5:16-18

   I would like to deliver a message titled, "God's Will and Sound Mind."
Economic trial brings about mental problems and collapse of family relationships. Recently, I have heard of news including patricide and matricide. People may be taken by surprise at these news. The wrangling between a father and a son finally led the father's death, and the indifference of a mother drove her child to set fire on their house, burning a sister to death. Nowadays, one neighbor kills the other in the middle of fighting. All these things are definite evidence that our minds are becoming depraved and sickened. Now, it is time for us all to heal our minds and make new resolutions. How can we control our mind which turns desolate? 

  First, the Bible tells us that if we have the attitude of joy always, we can keep our mind sound. As we get sick if our bodies are ill-nourished, so we will be distressed if our minds are ill-nourished. The most important nutrition in mind is joy. Joy is the most important vitamin in our mind. Without it, we will be sick and desolate in mind. The scripture says that the joy of our mind is the medicine for all diseases. 
  Proverb 17:22 reads, "A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones." We spend too much time on anxiety, concern, uneasiness, nervousness, and despair. All those things dry up our bones every moment. And it is needless to say that they break our flesh. Today many of our sicknesses are caused by anxiety, concern, uneasiness, nervousness and despair. We can treat our sickness with medicine temporarily, but not permanently. Only joy in mind becomes good medicine. That's why we should have the attitude to rejoice all the time. It doesn't mean that it is all right whether we are joyful or not. The Bible commands us to be joyful always. 
  Moreover, joyful heart becomes source of happiness. When we have joy, everything looks beautiful. Beautiful are the sky, clouds, flowers and trees, and birds songs and running water sound good. Husbands, wives and children look great, and we become happy. But if we lose joy in heart, we can't feel good though we visit beautiful places. Even if he who is sad looks at flowers, do the flowers look beautiful to him? Though he hears the birds singing, can he feel happy? Can he be happy with his wife and children? Once I counseled a man who failed in business and tried suicide. He was so gloom, frustrated and desperate that he lost all hope thinking only of death at all times. But, one day, while listening to God's message, he was touched by the Holy Spirit leading him to repent, confess and weep. Afterwards, the Holy Spirit entered his mind and he was joyful. He came to me and said, "Pastor, I didn't realize heaven was so beautiful. How beautiful and harmonious a pine tree in my garden is! I am so happy. I can't understand why I didn't believe in Jesus earlier." So, I asked him. "Do you still think of committing suicide?" Then, he replied. " No more." We can experience failure in business. There are many possible failures in our lives. We can either fail or succeed. The problem is wether our minds feel happy or not, for happiness is source of success." Therefore, a cheerful heart is the source of happiness. Wealth, splendor and fame do not bring us happiness. No matter how much wealth, splendor and fame we have, they may be like bad things if we do not have joy in hearts. Though we live in a shabby house, it can be a pleasant place like heaven if we have joy. Joy strengthens us. 
  We read in Nehemiah 8:10, "The joy of the Lord is your strength." Why do we lose strength in our lives? Why are housewives distressed? Why don't children try to study? Why are husbands discouraged? Because they lost joy in their hearts. Joy is the vitamin of heart but they have no nutrition in their hearts so they are discouraged. They lost courage and strength. Today it is with joy that we can overcome troubles and poverty. Though the youth have trouble, they can overcome and study and succeed if they have joy in their hearts. Therefore, if we do not have joy in our hearts, we lose strength. A famous Swiss psychiatrist, Victor Frankle, who recently passed away, had been in a Nazi asylum. At that time, people in custody had died from hard work, mistreatment, malnutrition, or killed in gas chamber. And their hair had been used to weave clothes, and their bones milled to make soap. Hitler was evil beyond belief. He told his account of being there. "While other people in custody died, I survived until the end of the second World War. I had married my wife just before being conscripted. So I missed my wife very much. Whenever I thought of my wife, I was happy. I decided to make it out alive and make my wife happy." Having hope in his mind that he would meet his wife and make her happy, he overcame hard work, malnutrition and sufferings. After all, he came out of that place, met his wife and became the chief of a world's famous hospital, who influenced many doctors in Swiss. We need to bear in mind what he said; A man could have hope that he would meet his wife. Therefore, people, who meet Jesus, believe in Him, have joy in mind and get hope that they will go into heaven through Jesus Christ, could have strength to do anything. When we have joy we can please others. 
  Proverb 15:13 says, "A happy heart makes the face cheerful, but heartache crushes the spirit." If a wife welcomes her husband with pleasure and joy when he gets back home from work, he will be relaxed from fatigue. And when a wife is exhausted, if her husband deals with her with a cheerful heart, her sorrow will disappear. Unhappy wives and husbands are disaster in a home. Gloomy wives will lead their husbands to failure. Gloomy husbands will also lead their wives to destruction. Gloomy heart will make all the people perish. According to a research done by a district office, the divorce rate increased by 40 percent than the previous year since the IMF crisis. The worse our circumstances are, the more we have to cooperate with our family members. Then we can overcome troubles. For the Bible says, "One man chases a thousand and two put ten thousand to flight." "If one lies down, he can't keep warm alone, but two can keep warm together." "A cord of three strands is not quickly broken." Why don't we unite one another but are we separated in times of trouble? That's because we lost joy in our hearts. If we have joy we can overcome trials but since we lost joy, we give up our lives. So we are easily separated for just a little problem. 
  A home training school gives us an information according to a research titled "An ideal wife for a husband": About 30 percent of husbands wish their wives to encourage them with pleasure when they get back from work. Many wives don't welcome their husbands with joy. If wives give compliments to their husbands, they will be encouraged. But wives say that their husbands will succeed when they tell them their faults but their husbands will be proud if they give them compliments. They are wrong, aren't they? All the wives here, please listen to me and change. Why don't you welcome with joy and give them compliments and encourage them? You can give them joy in their hearts. If you supply your husbands with joy, they will be strengthened. Therefore, depression and despair in your hearts will be removed by joy through compliments and  understanding. 
  If we rejoice in our hearts, entholphin comes out from us. It makes us refreshed and pleased and keeps us from being old and elevates us to be cured. When we rejoice, entholphin, natural curing energy, is produced in us and it makes us happy and we will make others happy, too. Likewise, joy gives us a great power in our lives. God commands us to rejoice. It doesn't mean that we rejoice according to our circumstances. But we must rejoice. It is His command. Therefore, we should make up our minds to obey Him and be joyful. It is better for us to smile than to cry. May you decide to smile and rejoice  in the name of the Lord!
  Philippians 4:4 states, "Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again: Rejoice!" God emphasizes to rejoice always. For joy makes our lives sound and nourishes our hearts so that we may not be desolate. Then you may ask a question: "Though I try to be joyful, my circumstance is not good and I am not happy. Then how can I be joyful?" Though you tell a man who is thirsty, "Be cool and refreshed," he can not be, but he will when he drinks water. It is the same as true with joy. We should know that God is the source of joy.         Psalm 16:11 shows us, "You have made known to me the path of life; you will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand." If we serve the Lord heartily, He fills us with joy and with eternal pleasures at His right hand and He becomes the spring of joy. If we accept Jesus Christ as our Savior and come to God, our Father, the Holy Spirit gives us joy in our hearts. If we have sin which breaks our relationship with God, the spring of joy stops to work. But If we repent of our sin in the name of Jesus, we can have joy through Him. The Bible says, "You do not have, because you do not ask God." "I will do whatever you ask in my name." Therefore, we have to ask God for joy that is the source of strength in our hearts. How can we get unless we do not ask? When you plead with God, "Lord, please give me joy and pour sweet rain of joy upon my dry heart due to terrible circumstance! Grant me joy!" Then joy will be overflowing out of your heart. If you ask God for joy, He will give you. 
  John 16:24 tells us, "Until now you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask and you will receive, and your joy will be complete." If you are joyful, God can do greater things through you. That's why when you ask Him, He will give you joy abundantly. Today we have to keep deeply in mind the word that God tells us, "Be joyful always," and ask our Lord, Jesus Christ, and God, our Father, who are the source of joy so that we may always have joy in our hearts. 
 
  Secondly, the Bible says, "Pray continually." Prayer is spiritual breath. Unless we pray, we are contaminated by earthly pollution, wither and we are dying spiritually. However, if we pray, it is like we take godly oxygen. we can have godly life. That's why unless we, believers, always pray, our spirits will be dying because of worldly pollution. You may ask why you should pray. Through prayer, we can have relationships with God and take life from Him. For God created our life and is the source of life who provides life for us. He is our Father. If we want to be intimate with Him, we have to talk with Him often. If we do not talk together, we will be far from each other. If we read His word and pray continually, He will be in us and we in Him and we will have intimacy with Him, then we will be overflowing with life in us. The reason we should pray is because through prayer we can be filled with the Holy Spirit. 
  According to Acts 4:31, "After they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God boldly." Only when we pray to God, we will be filled with the Holy Spirit. We can have the Spirit of God through the pipe of prayer. Jesus says, "If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. Then streams of living water will flow from within him. By this, He meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in Him were later to receive." Therefore, we should keep on praying and asking for the Holy Spirit so that He may fill us and we may live with spiritual power. Furthermore, prayer drives out the devil and demons. 
  In Mark 9:29 He replied, "This kind can come out only by prayer." Today the devil presses us every day with a number of demons: demons of filth, evil, lies, sickness, infirmities, and debauchery. As the Bible tells us, "God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power, and He went around doing good and healing all who were under the power of the devil," so the devil continues to come and stress us, and we turn to be like the devil. That is, our character is changed like the devil. Let us take a look at those who do wicked things. How can man do such a terrible thing? A student was killed by his teacher who was going to have a homo sexual relationship with him and the boy's living body was buried. This is the work of the devil. How did it happen that a man over 40 who was going to kidnap a young boy of 9 years old failed and choked and buried him? That's because the man was changed like the devil. We can't imagine with normal thoughts. The demon did the wicked thing in the man. The demon will be driven out when we pray. Since the devil flees in seven ways though he comes in one if we pray, the Lord always prays. We spray an insecticide on bugs and fleas don't we? Today our prayer is the prescription of God to drive out demons and the devil. If we pray, the devil and demons can't stand and will run away. And prayer is the way for us to get help from God. 
  Psalm 55:16 states, "I call to God, and the Lord saves me."
  Jeremiah 33:3 also says, "Call to me and I will answer you and tell you great and  unsearchable things you do not know." Without pray, God never answers us. Only when we pray to God, He will open the way and answer us. Through prayer we can help our neighbor. And through prayer, our family members may always be helped by God. When we pray for our nation and the world, God will answer us and bless them. Hence, we should pray all the time, but there are many people who do not know how to pray. We can pray with thanks and praise at all times. 
  We read in Colossians 4:2, "Devote yourselves to prayer, being watchful and thankful." We can thank God walking, "Lord, I thank you. Thank you for the sky, the earth and life." We also thank Him working, "I thank you, Lord. Thank you, thank you....." If you do not how to pray, you can just say, "Thank you. I thank you, Lord. Thank you...." You can just do that. Thanks- giving is a prayer. And then you have to ask for something. You don't have to ask in a wonder expression. Our elder prepares and prays for the worship service with beautiful words but you don't need to imitate him. For you may forget what you have to pray. Your should pray simply and repeatedly. 
  Matthew 6:7 says, "When you pray, do not keep on babbling like pagans, for they think they will be heard because of their many words." Therefore do not babble, but pray simply. If you need job, you can just pray in Jesus' name, "Lord, please, give me job. Give me job. Give me job." You may pray that all day long. If you are sick, pray, "Lord, heal me in Jesus name. Heal me. Heal me. Heal me in Jesus' name." If you want to drive out the demon, pray, "You, demon, go away in the name of Nazareth. Go away. Get away. Go. Go." In this way, you can pray at all times, then the authority of God may be upon you always.
  We also read in 1 Timothy 2:1, "I urge, then, first of all, that requests, prayers, intercession and thanksgiving be made for everyone, workings and all those in authority, that we may live peaceful and quiet lives in all godliness and holiness." This is the intercession prayer. We should pray for our parents, brothers, friends and relatives all the time. Prayer is the way  for us to walk with God and to experience the glory and power of heaven. Those who pray can accompany God and live in His glory and authority. 

  Thirdly, the Lord tells us to give thanks in any circumstance. Thanksgiving is like a fragrant offering. 
  Psalm 50:23 states, "He who sacrifices thank offerings honors me, and he prepares the way so that I may show him the salvation of God." Therefore, if we give thanks to those who did us favors, they will feel honored. If we thank God for His grace, He will be more glorified though He has been glorified. Who is more glorified than God? Yet if we give thanks to Him, He will add more glories. Then how much power do our thanks have? When we thank those who did us favors, they will be honored and greatly pleased. That's why thanksgiving opens the way to give us more grace and blessings. Jesus healed ten lepers but nine of them went away without thanksgiving and only a Samaritan came back to Him and fell at His feet and expressed his thanks. At that time the Lord said, "Where are the other nine lepers who were healed but only this Samaritan gives me thanks?" And He said, "It will be done as you believed. Theologians say that the other lepers were just healed from their leprosy, but since the Samaritan leper came back and gave thanks, he was not only healed, but also his broken  nose, feet and fingers were completely restored according to his faith. They say that the lepers were just healed from leprosy but the one who gave thanks were restored totally. Therefore, when we thank God, He will give us more blessings. When we thank God for a candle light, He will give us a lamp light; for a lamp light, the moon light; for the moon light, the sun light; for the sun light, heaven. As such, thanksgiving is the way through which God gives us more blessings. Moreover, thanksgiving drives out negative and dark thoughts from us. Although we are depressed and distressed, we can pray, "Lord, I thank you for your care for my life until now," then God comes to us and destroys the power of darkness and He makes us bright, positive and thankful to Him again. Yet if we grumble and complain, darkness will rush into us, then our lives will be throughly awful and crushed. But thanksgiving destroys all the darkness and brings us bright light. Thanksgiving is like putting oil on the wheels of our lives. We can put oil on the  wheels of our lives with good words. To our wives we can say, "Honey, I love you. I thank you for delicious food you made." Then your wives will be pleased. It is like you put oil on your lives. Your fatigue will disappear. If wives say to husbands when they get back from work, "I thank you for your good health, so we have hope. Thank you for your presence." Then husbands will consider it and decide to do more favors. With a good word, we may repay a great debt. So I can strongly tell you that thanksgiving is like putting oil on our lives so that all may go well with us. I think we Koreans do not often say, "Thank you." But we should use a lot the word, "Thanks." The western people express their thanks so often. Though we get them spoons or napkins, they say, "Thank you." Their lives are full of thank-you words. Those words will put oil of prosperity in their lives. The Bible says that we need to give thanks in any circumstance. It means that we should thank whether it may good or bad. It must be no problem to thank for good, yet we should give thanks for bad. Since thanksgiving is the means for God to work, we have to thank God for bad situation. If we complain bad circumstances, He will not work for us and thing will be worse. We should thank God for good and for bad, for He will make everything for good. That's why we have to give thanks in trouble. 
  Romans 8:28 tells us, "We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love Him, who have been called according to His purpose." Recently, I received a letter. A man, who sent the letter had gotten a tiding that he would be fired from his company. Though he got the sad news, he and his family gave thanks to God, praying "O Lord, we thank You." Then, he was not fired, but instead got a promotion, while others were fired. Of course, this was God's special case. But if he had become a drunk alcoholic. disappointed and been in despair, this would not have happened. s such, thanksgiving has power to bring God's blessings and miracle that makes everything possible. Likewise, we should keep in mind the three lessons He gives us today. Our joyful hearts and thanksgiving will keep us from depression and bring us abundant grace of God. When we are pressed for terrible circumstance and depressed today, we must exert ourselves to lead our lives with joy, prayer and thanksgiving. This is the will of God concerning us. Why do we also celebrate the thanksgiving day like the Americans? On September 6th, in 1620, 78men and 24 women, 102 in all, arrived in the North American continent aboard the May Flower to seek religious freedom from the United Kingdom. Most of them were killed by native Americans. But, next year, they cultivated the lands with the help of Indians. They worked hard and shed sweat, harvesting much crop. Although they lost their family members and got much troubles, they got plenty harvest and gave thanks to God. They invited Indian people and were reconciled with them. This became the source making the U.S such a strong and rich nation. Americans became strong and rich, for their ancestors didn't complain in spite of difficult situations, and gave thanks to God. As a result, they got God's blessings so became the world's most powerful nation. In difficult times under IMF, losing our jobs, let us be more joyful, pray more eagerly and give more thanks. If we have resources and relaxation in our hearts, we will overcome all the circumstances and destinies.

  -prayer-
 Father God abounding in love and holiness, many people are in anxious, uneasy and in despair. They have no room to yield to others but fight, divorce and kill each other at the smallest of things. Help us receive calmness and nutrition in mind from You. It is not difficult that we are joyful; pray continually; give thanks in all circumstances. When we determine to do these, our minds will be a garden by the stream and God's ability and glory will appear in our lives. Help us take all these things into action. We pray in the name of Jesus. Amen.
