Sunday, November 29th 1998
Title : Living Together
Scripture Reading : Eph 2:1-10

  Parents and  children  form a   family. Many  families 
constitute a society.  Societies form a larger community, 
called a nation. The members  of each community share 
joy, sorrow, pain and pleasure.  In this sense, we  ought 
to  share  the  pain  that  many  of  our  neighbors  go 
through due to  the economic crisis.  Our church makes 
active and specific  plans to help  them.  Jesus left  the 
throne in heaven  and came on  earth to  share His life 
with man.

  First, we must know  that Jesus came  on earth as a 
true man. Many theologians  say, "Jesus didn't come  in 
the flesh. He came in the spirit but people were deluded. 
They saw only a vision  not the incarnate Jesus." They 
are wrong.   Jesus has  to  be  born  in the   flesh and 
experience all the  joy and sorrow  of man in  order for 
Him to save man.

  Hebrews 2:14-18 says, "Since  the children have flesh 
and blood, He too  shared in their humanity  so that by 
His death He might  destroy him who  holds the power 
of death--that   is, the  devil--and free   those who  all 
their lives were held  in slavery by  their fear of death. 
For surely  it is  not angels  He  helps, but  Abraham's 
descendants. For  this reason  He had  to be  made like 
His brothers   in every  way, in   order that  He  might 
become a merciful and faithful  high priest in service to 
God, and that He might make atonement for the sins of 
the people. Because He  Himself suffered when  He was 
tempted,  He  is  able  to  help  those   who are   being 
tempted."

  Jesus was   born in  the flesh   and lived  as a   man 
among people because it was  the only way for  Him to 
save man. An angel could stay  among people but could 
not save them  because only a  man can redeem  people 
from their sins. This is why Jesus was born  as a man. 
He didn't jump down  from heaven, didn't  come out of 
an egg,  and didn't  pop up  from the  ground. He  was 
conceived and born of a woman just like us.

  In Luke 1:35, the angel answered to Mary, "The  Holy 
Spirit will come upon  you, and the  power of the Most 
High will overshadow you. So  the holy one to  be born 
will be called the Son of God." Jesus was conceived and 
born of a woman, like us, as written.

  Jesus was with  man in His  birth. He grew  up with 
man, too. He lived with His father Joseph, mother Mary 
and brothers   and sisters.  Since  they  were poor,   He 
helped His  carpenter  father. His  family  ate around  a 
table and   slept in  a small   room. He  grew up   with 
people. He was with those who were poor and suffering. 
Matthew 8:20  says, "Jesus  replied,  'Foxes have  holes 
and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has 
no place to  lay His  head.'" There are  many homeless 
people these days but Jesus was the chief homeless. He 
went from place  to place and  preached the  gospel. He 
was with the hungry and  the deserted in His  ministry.  
He   suffered  with   man  in   a  world   full   of  sin, 
unrighteousness, corruption and ugliness. He did not live 
in  an  area  without  sins.  He  lived  and  suffered  in 
marketplaces with  prostitutes, drunkards,  gamblers and 
swindlers. He   also experienced   death like   everybody 
else.   He  was   not   taken  up   to   heaven  without 
experiencing death. He went  through the pain  and fear 
of death. His death  on the cross  was the most painful 
type of  death. In  1  Corinthians 15:3-4,  Paul declares, 
"For what  I received  I passed  on to  you  as of  first 
importance: that  Christ died  for our  sins according  to 
the Scriptures, that He was  buried, that He was  raised 
on the  third  day according   to the  Scriptures." Jesus 
came on earth  as a  man with  bones, blood  and flesh 
and lived among  people. That was  because it was  the 
only way for Him to represent  man. Although He lived 
in the flesh, He  was born sinless and  never committed 
sins. Since He  kept all the  law and commandments  of 
God, He   was qualified  to  be  offered as   the sinless 
sacrifice for all man.

  Second, we must  realize that  we are  invited to live 
with the   resurrected Lord.   We must  understand  the 
meaning of the cross of  Jesus Christ. He was crucified 
to be sacrificed as  a true man and  as a representative 
of man   on behalf  of  all  the people.   We cannot   be 
offered because we  have sinful blood  for we  are dead 
due to   sins. Only  Christ, whose   blood is  clean  and 
sinless, can be  offered as  the sin  offering before  God 
for man. Therefore,  Jesus was  crucified to  redeem us 
from sins. We had  to be killed  for our sins  but Jesus 
became the sacrifice  for us.  He led  a sinless  life and 
shed His blood and thus cleansed us of all our sins.

  Mark 10:45 says, "For  even the Son  of Man did not 
come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life as 
a ransom   for many."  The Lord   gave His  life  as a 
ransom for us and  was judged for  our sins instead  of 
us. Whoever--old or  young, rich or  poor--accepts and 
believes in Him will be  forgiven as if he  never sinned. 
He will   be made  sinless due   to the  work of   Jesus 
Christ because  Jesus became   the sin offering  for  us.  
Jesus also became the sacrifice to  separate us from the 
world and  the devil.  1 John  3:8 says,  "He  who does 
what is  sinful is  of  the devil,  because the  devil  has 
been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of 
God appeared  was to  destroy  the devil's  work." The 
world is full of evil things. The devil is the god and the 
king of the  world.  He fills  the hearts  of people with 
demons, worldliness and greed. Such people cannot have 
God or  Jesus. They  only  see things  that will   decay. 
Jesus wanted to save us from worldliness and  from the 
power of the devil,  and thus, He  took the cross. Jesus 
died with   worldliness and  the devil.    Therefore, the 
world and the  devil are  destroyed in Jesus.  The devil 
lost his power and authority  in Jesus. Since Jesus  was 
sacrificed, worldliness   and the   devil are   driven out. 
Jesus was sacrificed  on the  cross because  He wanted 
the kingdom to come to  us, He wanted the Holy  Spirit 
to possess us, and He wanted  us to become the people 
of God. Jesus was sacrificed  to deliver us from  sorrow 
and diseases.

  Isaiah 53:4  says, "Surely  he took  up our  infirmities 
and carried our sorrows, yet we considered him stricken 
by God, smitten by him,  and afflicted." He took up  our 
infirmities and  carried our  sorrows. He  was sacrificed 
for us. He shed His blood. His body was torn. So many 
people live  with many  sorrows  and many  diseases. I 
found out that  everybody had some  kind of disease  in 
Central Asia.  Since they   had tough and  toiling  lives, 
they have various diseases. When I preached the  gospel 
to them,   many were   healed. I   felt as  if  God  was 
sweeping their diseases  with a  broom. Since  the Lord 
took up   our infirmities  and carried   our sorrows  and 
since He was sacrificed, when we come to Him, we will 
experience the   wonderful freedom   from sorrows   and 
diseases.

  Jesus offered Himself to  deliver us from poverty  and 
curses. 2 Corinthians 8:9 says, "For you know the grace 
of our Lord Jesus Christ, that  though He was rich, yet 
for your  sakes He  became poor,  so that  you through 
His poverty  might become  rich." Look  at His  passion 
for us. By  becoming the prey  to poverty, and  through 
His poverty, He makes us  rich. It is His fervent  desire 
that we  become rich  in  our hearts  and in  our  lives.  
Where can   we find  greater comfort   than this,  while 
many have become homeless  and jobless in  the era of 
the  relief  fund  from  IMF?  Jesus  became  poor  and 
homeless for us, because He  wanted to help those who 
are poor   and homeless.   He created  the  heaven  and 
earth. Could  there be  anything impossible  for Him   to 
do? Although we are hopeless, being surrounded by  our 
enemies, when we come to the Lord who wants to help 
us, He will perform miracles.  God divided the Red Sea. 
Nothing is impossible for Him. God  prepared everything 
for us although we don't see, hear  or touch it. It is an 
undeniable fact that  Jesus was sacrificed  to deliver  us 
from poverty and curses.

  Jesus was also sacrificed to  put an end to death  and 
hell. He was the Son  of God and He had  no reason to 
die. However, He offered Himself for us and put an end 
to death. In  Christ, death  is done away  with and  hell 
has lost  its power.   Death and hell   was overcome in 
Him. The door of resurrection, eternal life and heaven is 
wide open in Jesus. Why  did Jesus come on earth?  He 
came and lived with people. He took all the despair  and 
hopelessness and put an end to them by being crucified. 
When He   cried, "It  is finished,"   He finished  all  the 
existential   hopelessness   and  pain.   After   He   was 
resurrected, He  is inviting  us,  "Since I  chose to  live 
with you, let us be together." We are living on one side 
of the cross, which is  the desert of Adam.  Beyond the 
cross, there  is the  promised land  of Canaan  of Jesus 
Christ. Before   the cross,  people  used to   live in  the 
desert of Adam.  The desert was full of sin, corruption, 
unrighteousness,  despair,  death   and pain.   By  being 
crucified, He put an end to them and made the promised 
land of Canaan beyond the cross. The  Lord says to us, 
"I crossed the border to  be with you. Cross  the border 
and come to me.   Let us live  in the promised land  of 
Canaan with the five-fold gospel and threefold blessing." 
As He became  a man  and lived among  people, let  us 
now cross   the border  and  live with   the resurrected 
Lord. Let us enjoy  spiritual and physical blessings.  Let 
us receive  abundant life  from Him.  Jesus crossed  the 
border and   came to   the desert   of Adam  with  this 
purpose. He embraced us and put an end to all our sins. 
He prepared  the  Canaan land  flowing  with milk   and 
honey beyond the cross. He says,  "Come, live with me. 
I went to you  to live with you  and I will lead  you to 
Canaan of  the five-fold   gospel and threefold   blessing 
through the cross.  Let us live  together there." This  is 
the place  where He  invites us.  Jesus became  a man, 
died on the  cross, was  resurrected and now  He gives 
new life  to us.  If  anyone is  in Christ,  he  is a  new 
creation. The old has gone, the new has come. We used 
to live in the desert of Adam. Behold, the new creations 
live  in   the  land   that Jesus   prepared   beyond  the 
cross--the land of Canaan flowing with milk and honey.

  Hebrews 4:1-2 says, "Therefore, since  the promise of 
entering His rest still stands, let us be careful that none 
of you be found to have  fallen short of it. For we  also 
have had the  gospel preached to  us, just  as they did; 
but the message they  heard was of  no value to  them, 
because those who heard did not combine it with faith." 
In verses 9-11, "There remains, then, a Sabbath-rest for 
the people of  God; for  anyone who  enters God's  rest 
also rests  from his  own work,  just as  God did  from 
His. Let us,  therefore, make every  effort to  enter that 
rest, so that no one will fall by  following their example 
of disobedience."  We  must enter   the rest  that Jesus 
prepared. We must do away with sin and enter the rest 
of forgiveness  and  righteousness. Although  we  didn't 
achieve it on our own, we can enter that rest with faith 
and obedience. Jesus destroyed the devil and worldliness 
and prepared a land of the Holy Spirit and heaven.  We 
must enter there.  We  must enter the  rest of joy  and 
healing that Jesus  prepared after removing  sorrow and 
pain.  We   must enter   the rest   of the   blessing of 
Abraham and  the grace  of Christ  that Jesus  prepared 
after removing poverty and  curses. We must  overcome 
the fear of death and proclaim, "O death, where  is your 
victory? O death, where is your sting?"  We must enter 
the land  of resurrection  and  eternal life.  The land  is 
flowing with milk and honey of the five-fold gospel and 
threefold blessing. The cross is the border. There is the 
desert of Adam and, beyond the cross, there is the land 
of  Canaan  with  the  five-fold  gospel  and  three-fold 
blessing. Jesus crossed the border and lived with people.  
He embraced us and put an end  to the desert of Adam 
on the cross.  He invites  us across  the border  and to 
live in the  land of  the five-fold  gospel and three-fold 
blessing, saying,   "Enter by   faith and   obedience and 
prayer." The Israelites who came out of Egypt could not 
enter   Canaan   because   they    were   faithless   and 
disobedient. We,  too, cannot  go beyond  the cross  and 
enter the land of Canaan flowing with milk and honey if 
we are faithless  and disobedient. It  was achieved  2000 
years ago,   when Jesus  said, "It   is finished,"  on the 
cross. Jesus did it  all by Himself  and we didn't  make 
any  contribution  to  it.  This  is  the   secret that   all 
believers will enter His rest.

  Third, we will live with  God in the future.  As Jesus 
lived with people and we  live with Him in Canaan,  we 
will live with God in the  future. 1 Peter 2:9 says,  "But 
you are  a  chosen people,   a royal  priesthood, a   holy 
nation, a people belonging to God, that you may  declare 
the praises of Him who called you  out of darkness into 
his wonderful light."  Only the chosen ones--those who 
are called by God and saved in Jesus Christ--can  enter 
this world. Not all the righteous enter there. Not all the 
good enter   there. Neither  all  the ethical   nor all  the 
religious enter  there.  Only  those who  are called  and 
chosen by God in Jesus Christ  can enter there. That is 
because Jesus is the way, the truth and the  life and no 
one comes to  the Father except  through Him. We  can 
enter the kingdom of heaven and live with God through 
Jesus Christ. We will live as royal priests. Through  the 
victory of  the  cross, we   live like  kings and  priests, 
serving God. We are kings and priests.  How glorious it 
will be!   We will   live with God  in  such a  glorious 
world. We  are holy  nations.  We  are not   filled with 
filth, curses and ugliness. We will be made holy.  Since 
Jesus is our king  and we are  His people, we are  holy 
nations. We are already made holy but the  kingdom we 
are going  to enter  is much  holier since   Jesus is the 
king and  we are  His  brides and  people. We  are  the 
people belonging to God. We  will live with God as  His 
children, members of His household, the brides of Jesus, 
and heirs  of the  kingdom.  God  has prepared  heaven 
and describes it. It is already there.

  Revelation 21:1-7  says, "Then  I saw  a new  heaven 
and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth 
had passed away,  and there was  no longer any  sea. I 
saw the  Holy City,  the new  Jerusalem, coming  down 
out of heaven from God, prepared as  a bride beautifully 
dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from 
the throne  saying, 'Now  the dwelling  of God  is with 
men, and  He will   live with them.  They  will be  His 
people, and God Himself will be with them and be  their 
God. He  will wipe  every tear  from their  eyes. There 
will be no  more death or  mourning or crying  or pain, 
for the old order of things has  passed away.'  He who 
was seated on the throne said, 'I am making everything 
new!' Then He said, 'Write this down,  for these words 
are trustworthy and true.' He said to  me: 'It is done. I 
am the Alpha  and the  Omega, the  Beginning and  the 
End. To him who is thirsty I will give to drink without 
cost from   the spring  of  the water   of life.  He  who 
overcomes will inherit  all this,  and I  will be  his God 
and he will be my son.'" God will be our father and we 
will be  His  children.  God   will be  the head  of  the 
household and  we will  belong to  Him.  We  will live 
with Him with joy forever.

  If we live  with the  devil, we  will be  cast into  the 
lake of burning sulfur, where the devil and its followers 
will be thrown. However, when we follow and live with 
Jesus, we will live in the land  beyond the cross that is 
flowing with milk and honey. When He comes back, we 
will live with God forever.  For this reason, Jesus came 
on earth in the flesh. We must keep in mind that  Jesus 
crossed the  border to   be with man   in the desert  of 
Adam in order to  lead us across the  border to Canaan 
of the  five-fold gospel  and three-fold   blessing. Jesus, 
who came to us, is  now inviting us through  the cross, 
"Come and let  us live  together in the  land of  Canaan 
that I   prepared with  my torn   body and  shed blood. 
Since  I  lived  with   you in   sins,  you  will  live   in 
forgiveness and righteousness.   Since I lived  with you 
in the world under the control of the devil, you will live 
by the Holy Spirit. Since I  lived with you in the world 
of sorrows and  diseases, you  will live in  heaven with 
joy and healing.  Since I lived with you in the world of 
poverty and   curses, you  will  live  with  blessings of 
Abraham and  the grace  of Christ.  Since I  lived  with 
you in the world  of death and  hell, you will  live with 
resurrection, eternal   life and   heaven." Let   us march 
forward with faith,  obedience, dreams  and visions  like 
Joshua and Caleb, following the desires of Christ. Let us 
enter heaven and the rest of God.

(Prayer)
  Our holy heavenly Father, we give our thanks  to you 
for Jesus   Christ.  Jesus  became  a  man, lived   with 
people, and put  an end to  sin on the  cross. Jesus has 
prepared the   land of  Canaan  flowing with   milk and 
honey and wants  to live  with us. We  will enter  your 
rest and we will rest from our work as you rested from 
yours. When we go forth with faith  and peace, we will 
enjoy what you have  achieved. Heavenly Father, let  all 
the believers live in Canaan of Christ without wandering 
around in Adam's  desert. Since  the land  flowing with 
the five-fold gospel and three fold blessing is ours, help 
us advance to  it and find  rest there.  I pray in  Jesus' 
name. Amen.
