Sunday, November 1st 1998
Title : Forgiveness, Reconciliation and Love
Scripture Reading : Eph. 2:12-22



  Recently our society was filled with conflict. Since the IMF economy crisis throughout the Korean peninsula, the nationwide, structural reform unavoidably led to lay-offs. No wonder that lay-offs in the middle-sized companies and conglomerates brought the pain of conflict between labor groups and employers. This kind of economic collapse is leading to human relationship conflicts in many homes. What should we do to survive and overcome this extreme discord? 
  Where did this discord come from originally?  In fact, there was no conflict in the heaven and earth which God created, for He is love and there can't be conflict among the creatures He made with love. Love has only overflowing reconciliation. However, the fallen archangel caused the conflict.
  Isaiah 14:12-15 says, "How you have fallen from heaven, O morning star, son of the dawn! You have been cast down to the earth, you who once laid low the nations! You said in your heart, 'I will ascend to heaven; I will raise my throne above the stars of God; I will sit enthroned on the mount of assembly, on the utmost heights of the sacred mountain. I will ascend above the tops of clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.' But you are brought down to the grave, to the depths of the pit." Likewise, the archangel, Lucifer, the most beautiful one of the creatures that God made rose to be equal with Him, then conflict came into this universe. Then began the severe conflict between God and the archangel with the fallen angels.
  This conflict spread all over the human world. God created Adam and Eve in His image and placed them in the Garden of Eden and showed them His tremendous love. There was only righteousness, peace and joy in God's creation, until Satan came there and planted conflict. Satan tempted Adam and Eve to disobey and turn from God. God said to them, "You can enjoy all the fruit in the garden but the fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. If you eat of it, you will surely die." The fruit of the knowledge of good and evil means the fruit which makes someone the master, that is, the sovereign. Only the sovereign Lord can decide which is good or bad, but the slave can't and all they have to do is obedience. It was the tree of good and evil that tempted Adam and Eve to disobeyed God.
  Satan came and planted discord. He asked Eve, "Did God really tell you, 'you must not eat from any tree in the garden'? " Eve said, "No, we may eat fruit from the trees in the garden but the fruit from the tree of good and evil we should not eat of it nor touch it, or we will die." Then Satan said, "No, if you eat that fruit, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God. He is afraid that you will be like Him." In this way, Satan planted conflict saying, "God loves us. Why does He keep us from becoming like Him? He is too jealous. How can He deal with us like this?' Satan placed this sort of conflict into the heart of Eve. She was distressed with that conflict and finally ate the fruit of good and evil and made Adam, her husband, eat it, too.
  Hence, Satan created deep rebellion and conflict between God and man. Because of a desire to be like God, man disobeyed Him and was against Him and was troubled in his heart. Adam and Eve ate the fruit of good and evil and realized they were naked and hid themselves among the trees. "Naked" means their consciences were naked. Since they disobeyed God and sinned, their agony and discord in their consciences was too severe. Isn't it nowadays the same? When we commit a sin, we can't sleep at night and, we have agony and discord in our hearts. This results from the accusation of our consciences. Adam and Eve felt themselves to be naked. Being filled with shame and disgrace  was due to the conflict of conscience resulting from their disobedience and rejection of God's love. This directly led to the discord between them. Adam denounced Eve before God saying, 'The woman You had given me coaxed me into eating the fruit of good and evil'. Resentment against Eve, who made him eat the fruit, drove him into the conflict with Eve in his heart
  Since then, they were driven out from the garden of Eden, lived on the food that they cultivated on the ground and gave birth to the frist son Cain and the second son Abel. At that time there were two alters: Cain made one and Abel made one. Cain offered an offering with grains which he harvested, while Abel offered an offering by shedding lamb's blood according to God's will. To these offerings, God looked with favor on Abel and his alter, and so fire descended from heaven and burnt it, but God didn't received Cain's offering. This provoked Cain to anger and made him felt a sense of inferiority and downcast so he stoned Abel to death. From the conflict between these brothers; the first murder was committed.
  After that, ceaseless conflicts have arisen in all human minds and in these conflict maelstroms, people have suffered. Selfishness and avarice has continually brought complications among peoples, groups, nations and religions. Therefore, we can't find the place where complication doesn't exist including our homes, our communities, our nations and the world. Because of conflict, every place is being split and people in every place denunciate, attack and even kill one another. To settle conflict, people just use their own power.
  If a couple has a fight, the husband is willing to command his physical strength to overpower his wife. In the conflict of father and son, the father easily uses his authority to oppress the son. In brothers' conflict, a strong brother overpowers a less-than-strong brother. So far, in the complication between neighbors, groups and nations, settlement of the conflict has been reached by power.
I have read a very funny story which was introduced in a New York newspapers. At a factory in New York, a proprietor hung his effigy made of rubber and told his employees that anyone that nursed a grudge against him punched it. As a result, the frequency of the employees who came to beat the effigy caused the proprietor to have to change it into a new one once a week.    
  As such, people tend to solve conflict with power: by beating and conquering. But solving conflict with power brings larger conflicts. Bout brings bout, and violence; violence. Eye for eye gives rise to tooth for tooth, hence, conflict only grows larger and larger so it can't be settled.
  However, 2000 years ago our Lord Jesus Christ came to solve this conflict with forgiveness, reconciliation and love. Take a look at the cross! It has both a horizontal line and a vertical line. That symbolizes discord, doesn't it? One line is headed for the horizontal way, and the other for the vertical way. Isn't it discord? The cross on which Jesus was hanging symbolizes the conflict in our lives. On the cross, for the conflicts of individuals, families, brothers, neighbors, society, nations, and the world, Jesus was hanging.
  Romans 3:25 reads, "God presented Him as a sacrifice of atonement, through faith in His blood. He did this to demonstrate His justice, because in His forbearance He had left the sins committed beforehand unpunished."
  Colossians 1:20 states, "Through Him to reconcile to Himself all things, whether things on earth or things in heaven, by making peace through His blood, shed on the cross." Jesus was hanging on the cross to solve our conflict not with His power but with forgiveness, reconciliation and love through His sacrifice of atonement.
  The conflict between God and man was too terrible. Man rebelled against God and was cast out and He cursed man, so man was doomed to perish. There was the discord between God and man in the horizontal and vertical line, and there was no way out. Then Jesus, the Son of God came and His body was torn, and He shed His blood on the cross so that God had no discord with man. Since our sins were judged through Jesus; God forgave us and loved us through Jesus' blood. When we come to God, if we look to Him through Jesus, depending on His blood, God's wrath and the wall of the enemy disappears and we can be reconciled to God and love Him. Therefore, the conflict between God and man disappeared through the torn body and blood of Jesus, so God forgave, reconciled man and loved him.
  Accordingly, through Jesus' being sacrificed on the cross, His torn body and His blood, the conflict between God and human beings was settled and went away so that God forgave and loved man, and man came to be reconciled with and to love God. Without Jesus' sacrifice on the cross, there never can be forgiveness, reconciliation and love between God and mankind. Because God's son Jesus Christ wanted to be the offering to settle the conflict on His own accord, by this exploit of the cross, we could call God Father and God could reach His hands toward us, and call us 'My lovely son and daughter'. But by the cross of Jesus Christ; any religion will be useless. By ritual, ethic, good conduct or moral behavior, the deep chasm between God and man can not be narrowed. Only through Jesus' sacrifice on the cross, this conflict can disappear.
  Now, when God sees us, there is no conflict. God just looks over us with forgiveness and love. In the same way, when we look at God, there remains no conflict. Through the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross, our discontent toward God disappears and only forgiveness, reconciliation and love overflow. This wasn't a settlement by violence, or from God's judgement. But through forgiveness, reconciliation and love, this was achieved. For this, sacrificed offering was needed without fail. If there were not Jesus' sacrifice, the settlement of conflict could not be reached even with forgiveness, reconciliation and love. We must thank and praise our Lord Jesus who took our sins, was killed and gave us forgiveness, reconciliation and love. 
  Therefore, the words in Roman 5 ;10-12 come true. "For if, when we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to Him through the death of His son, how much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved through His life! Not only is this so, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, and this way death came to all men, because all sinned" 
  There is no more conflict. Now due to Jesus Christ who reconciled us to God, we can live with joy and give thanks to Him. What a wonderful grace! Without Jesus as a sacrifice of atonement, we would have had conflict with God and must have been abandoned forever. But thanks to Christ, conflict disappeared, and we are overflowing with forgiveness, reconciliation and love and we can rejoice in God. He pours out His Spirit through Jesus Christ so that we might be filled with righteousness, peace, joy and eternal hope.
  Moreover, through Jesus' sacrifice on the cross, we are free from the conscientious discord. Who didn't commit sin? Whenever we sin, our conscience convicts and accuses us so we stay up all night. Though no one says anything to us, our conscience rebukes us. We are distressed in our conscience and have conflict. Then we struggle to remove our conscientious distress, but our conscience accuses us more. Only when people remove conscientious conflict, they can have peace. Yet, as long as they have conflict in heart, they can't stop being distressed no matter how well they dress and eat.
  How do they get rid of the cross of their conflict in their hearts? Since Jesus Christ became a sacrifice on this cross of conflict, only when we accept Him as our Savior, will our conflict will go away. For Jesus' blood tells our conscience, "For the sake of this man I died. For the sake of this man's sin, my body was torn and I shed my blood. Therefore, For this man's sin I was judged, and I forgave him so you, conscience, must forgive him." Jesus Christ's sacrifice on the cross makes our conscientious accusation calm and makes us overflow with forgiveness, reconciliation and love. Therefore, we should forgive, reconcile to and love ourselves. Through Jesus Christ's blood on the cross, we can forgive and reconcile with ourselves and agree with ourselves then we can have peace in our hearts.
  Romans 7:22-25 tells us, "In my inner being I delight in God's law; but I see another law at work in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind and making me a prisoner of the law of sin at work within my members. What a wretched man I am! Who will rescue me from this body of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself in my mind am a slave to God's law, but in the sinful nature a slave to the law of sin." Since this conflict in our mind is removed through Jesus Christ, we should thank Him.
  Hebrews 10:22 says, "Let us draw near to God with a sincere heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience and having our bodies washed with pure water." Our conscience is cleansed through the blood of Jesus Christ, and we become one through the Holy Spirit without conflict. The conflict between God and man also disappeared, and we are filled with peace as it brings us true peace and happiness. Then we can drive out the conflict we have against our neighbors. We argue with our neighbors for our selfishness and greed and have discord with them. How can we remove this discord? Only when we crucify our selfish mind and greed on the cross with Jesus and have forgiveness, reconciliation and love, can we remove conflict and make a new relationship. All the people have their self-centered minds, thoughts, and greed. As long as they keep those things, their conflict will be more serious, and they will have arguments on and on. We must follow what Jesus did. Man rebelled against God but God didn't rebel. God was betrayed by man but man wasn't. Yet God Himself came to us and took the cross and removed the conflict that He had with us. Likewise, if we want to eliminate conflict we have with our neighbors, either one should take the cross. Unless either one or both of them take the cross and show forgiveness, reconciliation and love, their conflict will never cease.
  Our Lord Jesus said in Matthew 5:39-42, "If some strikes you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if someone wants to sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. if someone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles.  Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you." What does this mean? We have conflict, argument and discord because of just a little thing in our lives. In order to get rid of those conflicts, we should take the cross with forgiveness, reconciliation and love.    (啻廓簞 Part) When someone strikes you on the right cheek, you also strike him on the left cheek, then reconciliation cannot be made. on the other hand, when some hits you, if you fix your anger and pain on the cross, then reconciliation can be made.
  Jesus was crucified for a man like me, why can't I be crucified on the cross! Take a look at Jesus' cross and His being pleased with me, and pray that Oh, Lord, hold firm to my hand, I will also fix myself to the cross with You and represent Your forgiveness, reconciliation and love. If someone strikes you on the right cheek, turn to him the other as well, through doing this way the message of forgiveness, reconciliation and love will be delivered. When someone sues you to take your tunic; It is not your house, but just your tunic; let him have your clock as well saying, 'can you be satisfied with my tunic? please have my clock'. If someone forces you to go a mile, please go with him two miles. By crucifying and sacrificing myself, the message of forgiveness, reconciliation and love can be delivered, and conflict can disappear.  
  A few days ago, I saw on the TV news two cars struggling to pass each other. The two cars were stopped at a traffic light. Each person coming out of the two cars began fighting and as conflict went on, one stabbed the other to death. this was a very subtle conflict. Instead of trying to pass each other, if one had said 'go ahead.' and forgiven, reconciled with and loved, the man would not  have been killed.
  It is the same as the conflict between a husband and a wife. Complication is not from a big problem but from a small one, and this leads to disorder, and even to divorce. If either the husband or the wife looks over to Jesus' cross, and prays 'Lord, please hold  my hand and crucify me on the cross with you' and deliver forgiveness, reconciliation and love, as if a hand can't make clapping, the conflict cannot be made.
 We continue to have conflict in our lives, but unless we first take the cross and show forgiveness, reconciliation and love, we will never be reconciled with our neighbors, nor will our conflict go away. We have both little and big conflicts in our lives: among married couples, parents and children, brothers, neighbors, and social classes. Because of these discords we are not happy and our lives are destroyed. Only when each of us takes the cross and delivers the message of forgiveness, reconciliation and love, our conflicts will disappear and happiness will come. The most awful and everlasting conflict between God and man was eliminated by forgiveness, reconciliation and love through Jesus' blood on the cross. The conflict between our conscience and our being was removed by forgiveness, reconciliation and love through Jesus' blood. When we eat Christ's broken body and drink His blood, our conflict with God disappears. Through Jesus' body and blood we overflow with forgiveness, reconciliation and love from God. Furthermore, when we eat His broken body and drink His blood, we tell our conscience, "be quiet, for I am forgiven and loved by God because of Jesus' death. You, conscience, must forgive, reconcile with me and love me." Human conflict is not only for yesterday and today. That has been with us as disaster since man was made. The greatest thing in Christianity is that our God Himself was crucified on the cross of this conflict. God who was hurt by man sacrificed for him who rebelled against Him and reached out His hands of forgiveness, reconciliation and love. Only when we deeply receive the grace and love of the Lord and crucify ourselves on the cross with Him and show forgiveness, reconciliation and love, will our conflict  go away. Instead, love will echo there. There's no other way than the cross of Jesus Christ to bring happiness into our lives. We have to look to the cross and pray, "Lord, you were hanging on the cross, so let me do that and die, so that through me forgiveness, reconciliation and love may be overflowing." May you pray like this continually! 

-Prayer-
  Holy and glorious our Father,  the whole world is filled with conflict, and our hearts are also filled with it, and they are in shreds. When we eat Your torn body and drink Your blood today, let us know that You have settled conflict with forgiveness, reconciliation and love not by strength or violence but by shedding Your blood and tearing Your body. Through this communion, let us know the conflict was settled between You and us, our conscience and ourselves, us and our neighbors. Only Jesus who shed His blood and was torn in His body becomes our intermediator of conflict. Let us know that only through Him, there is no more conflict, fight, separation and judgement, and there is only forgiveness, reconciliation and love. Now that God is my Father, we are Your children and we become peacemakers, we thank Jesus. Oh  Lord, help us take up our crosses and give forgiveness, reconciliation and love to our neighbors. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
