Sunday, September 20th 1998
Title : What's the Real Cross?
Scripture Reading : Gal 2:20-21

I've heard that some Christian violated the national law and was put into prison and said he was suffering from the cross. Do you think that his life in prison is his cross? People tend to say that any trial is their cross. We must distinguish the true cross from the false cross. We should take the true cross in any troubles but throw away the false cross. First, since our cross started  with Jesus Christ, we have to clearly check what His cross was. Jesus was not forced to take the cross, nor was He crucified because of His fault. Jesus was blameless and unblemished during His life. He voluntarily took the cross to save mankind. Therefore, He was willing to take the cross. It was the cross that Jesus chose to suffer to redeem mankind. It was not done by force, nor due to His fault. John 10:17-18 states, "The reason my Father loves me is that I lay down my life --only to take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord." Jesus volunteered to die on the cross. No one took His life by crucifying Him. For Jesus was the Son of God who had all the authority of heaven and earth. The Lord made heaven and earth with the word. Only by His single word angels could have come down and protected Him. Therefore, it was obvious that Jesus took the cross on His own accord for our sake. Then why did He take the cross? Jesus took the cross to remove sin in our places. All of us committed sin against God and we were born sinful, so there is no one righteous without sin. "All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God." We, sinners, do not dare to stand before God. We never cleanse us from sin for ourselves. As the leopard can't get rid of its speckles and the Ethiopians can't make their skin white, so man will never wash away his sin in his life. Because we were born in sin and live on sin and we are captives of it, we can't remove it. Since the wage of sin is death, we are destined to perish forever. Jesus took the cross in order  to bear our sin before God and destroy it. Therefore, Jesus Christ was judged on the cross with your and my sin. In other words, we were judged before God for our sin through Jesus. What Jesus tore His body and shed His blood by the wrath and judgment of God means we died through Jesus, that is, our sinful old-selves were crucified on the cross. The crucifixion of Jesus Christ was only because of our sin. Therefore, now we can be forgiven from our sin without any condition only with faith by God's grace through Christ. No matter how sinful and  foolish we are and although we deserve to be abandoned, Jesus' precious blood will purify us from sin only if we call His name and depend on Him. Mark 10:45 says, "For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life as a ransom for many." We also reads in 1 John 2:2, "He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not only for ours but also for the sins of the whole world." If Jesus had not come, we would have had no way to be free from sin. We can't be forgiven from sin by our righteous and moral deed. Therefore, there is no other name under heaven given to men by which we must be saved. Only Jesus is the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Jesus. Religion is good, and so are philosophy, ethics and morals. However, forgiveness can be given to us only through Jesus. Furthermore, Jesus was  crucified in order to defeat the  world and give us the Holy Spirit. Since we were born in the world which the devil had occupied, we are filled with worldly things. We are accustomed to the worldly sin, lie, betrayal, lust, debauchery, jealousy, indignation, hatred, haughtiness and pride. The Lord took the cross in order to defeat the devil, the king of this world, destroy his dominion and authority and bring heaven into us. Jesus expelled the world through the cross and brought us heaven. He took the cross both that God might be our God; Jesus our King; the Holy Spirit our comforter; heavenly angels our guards and that we might not live to the world but to the word and the Holy Spirit. On the cross Jesus defeated the devil and conquered this world and put heaven in us. Heaven has come into you who accepted Jesus as Savior. The Holy Spirit of heaven has come into us and guides us brightly and clearly through our consciences that we may observe God's commandments His power. Therefore, no one defeats the world and the devil and brings us heaven except through the cross of Christ. It won't be done by our might and power. Just as the scripture says, "If you believe in Jesus, you won't say, 'Heaven is here  and there,' for heaven is in you," so heaven is in us. According  to John 14:16-17, "I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Counselor to be with you forever --- the Spirit  of truth. The world cannot accept Him, because it neither sees Him nor knows Him. But you know Him, for He lives with you and will be in you."  Now that the Spirit of heaven, the Holy Spirit, has come into those who believe in Jesus, they can call God "Abba Father", accept Jesus as their Savior and be allowed to live to the truth.  Jesus was also crucified to redeem our sickness. We are distressed in mind and overwhelmed by physical diseases. We make every effort to be cured from those diseases. Today I heard the testimony from Rev. Thomas who preached for the second worship service. A famous American evangelist was dying of cancer. The doctor said to his wife, "Your husband will pass away within 20 minutes." The evangelist was in a coma. By the way there was an old Christian lady in his neighborhood. While she was praying in the morning, the Holy Spirit told her, "You have to visit my servant, a famous evangelist, your neighbor, who is dying of cancer, and pray for him." The old lady said, "I'm afraid I can't, for I'm not a pastor nor a deaconess. I'm just a lay Christian. Why should I go?" But the Spirit said, "You must go." So the lady got up and knocked the pastor's door. Then his wife opened the door and the old lady said, "While praying, God told me to pray for your husband." The wife said, "No, you can't, for my husband is in a coma. He is just about to die." But the old lady insisted. "God told me to quicken him right now. Please let me in." At last the wife allowed her to enter. The husband was almost dying and the doctor said he was just about to die. The old lady laid her hand on the pastor and prayed, "Lord, since Jesus bore the sickness of this pastor on the cross, this pastor's death is surely not your will. I pray in Jesus' name, 'Lord, please, spare this pastor and save him from sickness.' "  After praying, the pastor woke up from a coma and a terrible lump of cancer began to come out from his mouth. Then he was completely healed! God's miracle was performed. It was not done through God's great servant but a lay Christian.
Because Jesus took up our infirmities and carried our sickness on the cross, we can remove our infirmities and diseases through Jesus. Isaiah 53:5 states, "He was pierced for our trans- gressions, He was crushed for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was upon Him, and by His wounds we are healed." Moreover, Jesus was crucified to set us free from curse. When Jesus was on the cross, He carried away our curse of thorns and thistles. He says in Galatians 3:13-14, "Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written: 'Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree.' He redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus." We can be free from curse and saved only when we believe in Jesus. Therefore wherever we go, God's blessing will be with us and the problems will be solved. Without God's blessing, we can't solve problems with our efforts. The Bible says, "My people will be blessed when they go out and come in. Their basket and  kneading trough will be blessed." The blessing should accompany us. Jesus grants us the blessing. Jesus took the cross to bear our curse. That is the true meaning of the cross. He took the cross to deliver us from death so that we might destroy death and hell and rise through Him. God sent Jesus Christ that we may die, be buried and rise with Him for eternal heaven. Though the Lord awfully died on the cross by judgment, He went down to hell and rose on the third day and brought us heaven and eternal life by destroying death and hell. That's why Jesus said, "Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God; trust also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, I would have told you. I am going there to prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am."  Why did Jesus take the cross? He did it in order to save mankind from sin, the world, sickness, curse and death. He did not take the cross by chance. The cross was the place where He worked and created: where He destroyed all our old-selves and recreated us. That was the true cross of Jesus Christ. Then secondly, what is not our true cross? The Bible says in Galatians 5:1, please, repeat after me, "It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm, then, and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery." The yoke of slavery is not the cross. Jesus took the cross to set us free from the yoke of slavery. Yet today many people take the yoke of sin and say, "This is my cross." But it is not the real cross. That is the yoke of slavery. People also say, "Since we live in this world, we are weak physically though we strongly wish to follow the Spirit. We can't help drinking, lying, stealing and cheating. Because all the people live in that way, this kind of life is my cross." They are ridiculous.  That is the yoke of the devil.  That is not the real cross. It was to destroy the yoke of the devil that Jesus was crucified. Therefore, you are wrong when you call your worldly troubles your cross. Since it is the yoke of the devil, you must crush it through the cross of Jesus Christ. Some people say due to mental and physical problems, "This sickness is my cross: lung  disease, arthritis, back pain and weak eyesight." Are they real crosses? Jesus took the cross to eliminate those diseases. For they are the yokes of the devil to be destroyed and they can not be our cross. In Genesis 3, "Because you ate from the tree about which I commanded you, 'You must not eat of it,' cursed is the ground because of you; through painful toil  you will eat of it all the days  of your live." We must take pains to eat due to poverty during our whole lifetime, for this earth was cursed. Poverty resulted from our sins. It is never the blessing of God. It did not come from blessing. When the garden of Eden was blessed, there was no poverty like that. That's why we can't say that the trials of curse and poverty are our cross, but they are rather the yoke that we must destroy. When we suffer from dying, we may say, "Death is my cross." But you must know that death is not your cross. Jesus took the cross to defeat death. Death said that its final enemy was death itself. Death is our enemy. Death is the yoke of the enemy. If we are resurrected later, we won't die forever. We earnestly long not to die but live with Jesus eternally. We are not happy to die. To die is so troubling us. We are to enter heaven after leaving our bodies, but death itself is severe suffering and pain. Since Jesus came to deliver us from death and take us to eternal heaven, death itself is not the cross, but the final enemy that we must destroy. That's why we should not say, "All the trials are the cross: sin, worldly trial, sickness, curse, poverty, death and frustration." Because they are not the cross. Then what is the true cross? Let me tell you what the true cross is. When we go through hardships to save others, we can call it a real cross. In order to save others, we may suffer. Take a look at a Catholic  Sister, Teresa, who died in 1997. She was born as a youngest daughter in a rich family in Yugoslavia. At 18, she entered a nunnery and moved to India and served the people as a missionary there for 17 years. At 36 in 1940, she received an Indian citizenship and went into the slums where she taught children and dedicated her life to the sick and dying people. She received the revelation of God that she should serve the most poor people. She entered the place and washed the dying people and died before God. She went into the most miserable place and worked there. If she had been in her hometown, she would have had a rich marriage life. She believed in Jesus so she volunteered before God to suffer to preach the salvation. The suffering of the sister Teresa, can be called the true cross, for she was willing to take the cross. Even now if you leave your possessions and job for the gospel of Christ at a remote place,  it can be a real cross.  God will reward you greatly. The suffering we willingly have for the gospel is called the true cross. The Catholic father Demian, who died at 49 in 1889, was born at a faithful family and received godly faith from his mother. He entered Reuben Divinity School at 19, and the next year in 1864, evangelized in the islands of Puna and Coara in Hawaii for nine years. At 33 he left for the Molocai Island where lepers were accommodated and many of them died a day from fighting due to terrible circumstances. Though he buried them and tried his best to preach the gospel, the lepers rejected it. They said, "You are healthy, but we are lepers. You can preach the gospel because you are not sick. Imaging that you are lepers." They didn't receive the gospel at all. So the father Demian prayed to God, "Lord, please make me a leper  that I can evangelize them." He heartily prayed. One day he found himself a leper.  His eyebrows disappeared and his nose was broken and his toes were cut off. He thanked God and preached, "My leper brothers!" He didn't say to them, "My brothers," before. He spoke to them as a leper, "My brothers, listen to me." Then all the lepers there paid attention to his preaching. They accepted his preaching as true and all of them repented of their sins and believed in Jesus. The lepers' island of hell turned to heavenly island. At 49, he passed away.  Before he died, he arranged his belongings and wrote,  "I'm so happy to have given up what I have. I'd like to die as I am with nothing now. I have nothing with me. I'm  truly happy." Then he died. This is the life of true cross. If we are willing to have trials for others, give up our lives for them and we volunteered to be persecuted for the gospel of Christ, deny ourselves everyday and follow the Lord, then we can say that we take the true cross. The suffering that Jesus took on the cross we don't have to take again, for it is not the real cross for us. Those hardships such as sin, world, sickness, curse, poverty and death must not be the real cross. Those things were just like the yoke totally destroyed by Jesus on the cross. The true cross is called when  we willingly leave everything for the gospel of Christ even in troubles to save others; when we are persecuted and martyred for the sake of the gospel of Jesus; when we crucify our physical greed and pleasure on the cross and deny ourselves but follow Jesus. Therefore, when we take the true cross and live for the glory of Christ, God will grant us a tremendous reward. The yoke that the devil gives us is not the real cross. Only when we sacrifice ourselves for the gospel of Jesus Christ, that is the true cross. 
