Sunday, August 16th 1998
Title : Advance Towards the Hope
Scripture Reading : 2King 7:1-9

  Christianity is the religion of hope. No matter how terrible and desperate Jesus' suffering and death on the cross might be, it was just a glorious prelude of His splendid resurrection.
  Though churches were severely persecuted throughout history, they've never perished or disappeared in the world. That's because of the hope of the resurrection rooted in the church. No matter how severe suffering may be, it won't be desperate as long as there is hope.
  Some people say we should be patient to when we have affliction in our lives, remembering the the cross of Jesus. However, I don't think it is right. The Bible says that Jesus suffered for the tremendous hope in the future.
  Hebrews 12:2 tells us, "Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God." Jesus Himself could endure the trial on the cross because of hope and joy in the future. Since Jesus arose, our suffering is filled with hope of resurrection. No matter how severe the IMF panic may be, for us who believe in Jesus, the hope of revival is blooming in the midst of the IMF crisis. Although we are in trouble, we should lift our eyes up and continuously look forward to the upcoming hope. This is true faith. When we have such faith, God will do a miracle for us through this hope. A historical incident that I will tell you today shows about how important this hope is.
  Long time ago Samaria was besieged by the army of Ben-Hadad, king of Aram. He besieged Samaria with his entire army. Yet the siege lasted for months. The city was filled with famine. There was no more food or water. Their famine was so severe that even a donkey's head and a dove's dung were sold at a high price for food.
  One day the king was passing by the wall, a woman cried to him, "Help me, my lord." The king replied, "Where can I get help for you? We have no rice nor money." Yet the woman said, "This woman said to me, 'Give up your son so we may eat him today, and tomorrow we'll  eat my son.' So we cooked my son and ate him. The next day I said to her, 'Give up your son so we may eat him,' but she had hidden him."  When the king heard that, he tore his robes. He returned to his palace and called in his man and said, "Do we have a prophet in this country? Since God must have forsaken us, we don't need a prophet. Find Elisha and behead him." The king was very frustrated and he became desperate. When the king's messenger visited Elisha at his house to kill him, Elisha recognized it through the Holy Spirit. So he said, "Shut the door. The murderer is sending someone to cut off my head." After a little while, the messenger came and shouted, knocking at the door, "The king sent me to behead Elisha." Then Elisha declared the message of hope even in despair.
  In 2 Kings 7:1 Elisha said, "Hear the word of the Lord. This is what the Lord says: About this time tomorrow, a seah of flour will sell for a shekel and two seahs of barley for a shekel at the gate of Samaria." We can say that in today's situation: for example, a bag of flour will sell for 1,000 won and two bags of barley for 1,000 won. It is impossible for us to imagine. No wonder no one could believe Elisha's prophecy in such a severe famine that even a donkey's head and a dove's dung were sold at a high price. He proclaimed that the miracle would be performed about that time the next day, not in a month or a year. Then the prime minister, whom the king sent, said to Elisha and the people, "Even if the Lord should open the floodgates of the heavens, could this happen?" It can only be said by a man as a human being. For the prophecy was beyond our imagination. However, Elisha terribly punished the one who confessed these desperate words. Elisha said, "You will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat any of it." God preached great hope through Elisha when the people were in despair and frustration. Elisha was the man who preached the faith of hope. Yet God severely punished the one who didn't accept the hope but insisted on despair. God is the God of hope, not  the God of despair. He is the God of dreams, not of frustration. God wants to give us hope.
  Psalm 62:5-6 says, "Find rest, O my soul, in God alone; my  hope comes from Him. He alone is my rock and my salvation; He is my fortress, I will not be shaken." The scripture tell us that if we just look to God who created heaven and earth and everything on earthand find rest in Him alone, our hope will come from Him. 
  But, today, there are good many theologians who praise agony. They argue Christianity becomes precious just in time of trouble. They say Christianity falls to depravity if it brings glory from trouble. The words are one thing, and the facts are another. Take a look at this deluge. If trouble is good, is it good that people who lived in the lower areas suffered flood-caused damage, including losing their possessions, paraphernalia, furniture and even their husbands or wives. The flood-sticken people were the poor who built their houses in the lower area at a cheap price. The rich didn't suffer any loss. Then is such poverty God's blessing? Does it mean current sufferings glorify God? If God enjoys seeing those flood-stricken people, we can't believe God is love. People who say it is a downfall for Christianity to enter glory would not take up the cross of suffering. If their thinking is correct, is it true that churches in the U.S, the richest nation in the world, are all in depravity? If they are fallen, are the churches in the U.S in charge of the entire world mission? If glory is depravity, is heaven, which is filled with glory, a downfallen place? Hardship can give a person far greater glory through repentance and discipline, but it is not a beautiful thing by definition. When we face hardship, we repent, confess our sins to God, seek the Lord, believe in Him and serve Him so that we may receive the God's grace. Hardship itself is not a blessing, nor is it beautiful. 
  It is true theology that makes us seek God, who ceaselessly gives us hope and glory and encourages us to pray so that we may receive His blessings. People say a church can grow and develope only through suffering. However the church growing through the outer pressure of hardship is difficult. If a child studies hard only when he is flogged, we say the child is abnormal. Normally a student studies hard on his own accord. In the same way, a church, which by the Holy Spirit and the Word serves God, is dedicated to Him, and prays wholeheartedly will grow. On the contrary, if a church repents, confesses, prays, and grows in the wake of being faced by hardship, flood, war or pandemic, etc, this church's growth is phenominal.  
  Lamentation 3:32-33 states, "Though He brings grief, He will show compassion, so great is His unfailing love. For He does not willingly bring affliction or grief to the children of men." God does not want to bring us troubles or concerns. Since we are corrupt and turn from Him and live against His will, He sometimes brings us affliction or trials to make us turn to Him. He is never willing to allows hardships. The church is truly sound when it voluntarily takes its cross and sacrifices itself with the fullness of the blessing and grace of God and His word and Spirit. And we also can be called true Christians when we are willing to serve our neighbor and live for the glory of Christ with the fullness of God's blessing and grace by overflowing with His word and Spirit. If we only repent and turn to God through His punishment, we can not be called victorious Christians. That's why we don't hate or praise affliction. We can't say that we don't need suffering in our lives. Because man is always conceited, proud and haughty, and is corrupted by his worldly and physical pleasure. God uses trials as a way to turn us to Him, but the trial itself is not the goal. All he wishes is to give us hope and blessings.
  In 3 John 2, "Dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well." John 10:10 also says, "The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full."
  Psalm 23:1 reads, "The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not be in want." Therefore, all kinds of trials and troubles themselves are not the goal. We must know that they are means to lead us to greater hope and glory. Therefore God is the God who gives us hope. He proclaims hope to us. Yet, if we don't accept hope, but doubt Him and take despair and failure, He will bring strict judgment on us. Although Samaria was besieged by the army of Ben-Hadad, king of Aram, and was totally in despair and the king of Samaria sent his messenger to kill Elisha, the man of God, God declared hope through the mouth of Elisha. He prophesied, "About this time tomorrow there will be an overflowing of food at the entrance of the city gate." It was the proclamation of hope. Yet the Lord severely judged through Elisha the officer who didn't accept the hope, "You will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat any of it."
  By the way, there were four men with leprosy at the entrance of the city gate. In fact, lepers had to stay out of the city and then would cry, "I'm dirty, I'm dirty," to everyone who came along. They would be stoned if they went into the city. Now they sat outside the city and felt so terrible. They were too famished to get up and, being lepers, their bodies were all festered. They were frustrated and in despair. They had no hope in them, for they were dying of hunger and leprosy. They discussed something at the entrance of the city gate, "If we think of trial as our destiny, we will die, and if we go into the city, we will also be stoned because of famine. Then what shall we do? We should decide if we stay here in despair until we die, or if we go towards hope. There may be hope in the Aramean army, for they have a lot of things to eat and drink; but are not sure of surviving there. Though we may die there, there is hope in the city of Samaria. There are also famine, despair and frustration and the Aramean army is our enemy, but there will be hope that we can eat, drinks and have clothes to wear. Therefore, why should we die here? Let us get up and advance towards hope!" It looks strange. Yet they made a decision to go towards hope though it looked so small. Their hope was not great at all. The Aramean army would never spare the lepers. In spite of that, they decided, "There will be hope, food and clothes. Therefore let us march towards hope though we may die on our way!" God was pleased with their faith. They walked towards hope at the risk of their lives.
  Jeremiah 29:11-13 states, "For I know the plans I have for you," declares the Lord, "plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart." The plans God has toward us is not disaster but peace. He wants to give us hope for the future. Therefore when the four lepers were willing to go towards hope,  God decided to save the Israelites through them. If God closes the door, no one will open it, and if He opens the door, no one will close it. God is God. He is omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent. He created heaven,  earth, and everything in it. If He moves, all the earth will move. God decided to use the lepers who went out with just a little hope. No matter how low our status is and how weak we are, God never uses the soldiers, scholars, and leaders who are in despair, but He uses those who have hope.
  The Bible says in Psalm 146:5-7, "Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God, the Maker of heaven and earth, the sea, and everything in them--the Lord, who remains faithful forever. He upholds the cause of the oppressed and gives food to the hungry. The Lord sets prisoners free." We have to put our hope in God. The four lepers rose at dusk. Their toes were cut off so they couldn't keep their balance. They walked towards hope with their arms around the others shoulder. If one of them fell down, all of them fell together, but they encouraged one another; "Get up! We must walk towards hope." If one of them sat down, the others urged him, "Come on! Why don't we advance? We must have hope." But to their surprise, there was another person walking with them! He was Jesus, the Son of God. We could see four men walking, but in God's sight, Jesus, our Lord, was walking with them. Where there is hope, there is God with us. There is no hope without God. He will never be with those who give up hope.
  Since God was walking with them, He made their falling sound like great chariots and their encouraging words sound like a great army. When the Aramean army were going to eat dinner at dusk, they suddenly heard the sound of chariots and a great army. When the lepers fell down, it sounded like a great army was attacking. Since God was with them, He made a little thing great. The Aramean army were terrified and said to one another, "Look, the king of Israel has hired the Hittite and Egyptian kings to attack us! They have besieged us and are coming toward us. Listen to the big noises. Let us flee to survive!" They abandoned their food, donkeys, and arms and left their clothes all over the roads.
  When the four lepers arrived, there were tents and animals left but no man. They enjoyed eating, putting on clothes, taking gold and silver. Then they said to each other, "This is a day of good news. We are keeping it to ourselves. If we wait until daylight, punishment will overtake us. Let's go at once and report this to the royal palace." They ran and told the officers. Then they checked and realized that not a man was there. So they attacked the Aramean camps and the next morning they had so much flour and barley at the city gate. A seah of flour sold for a shekel and two seahs of barley for a shekel, and all the Israelites were full. Elisha's declaration of hope and the march of hope of four lepers brought them marvelous salvation and blessings. These great victories and blessings were brought by hope. Unless there is hope, God will not work. When there was a great declaration of Elisha about hope and the four lepers walked towards hope in that kind of terrible despair, God was with them and brought them tremendous salvation and blessings.
  Because of the IMF crisis, the lamp light of hope of the government, companies, laborers and citizen's is going out. To make matter worse, this flood caused a deadly blow to the entire economy. We are now staggering. Is there any hope for the future? Can we survive? All-the-looking-to-the congress is sickening our people, making us weary. People say 'How can we depend on the politicians? Do away with the National Assembly! Dismiss the politicians on the basis of voluntary retirement. How dare they receive their payment without doing their duties?' People's resentment against the Congress is being poured out. Can we put our hope in Congress? We can not pin our hope in the politicians. Then, can we put our trust in the struggling companies? How can we put our trust in the laborers in a desperate situation with their families after being fired from their jobs? They are like a flower shedding its leaves and a blown-over candle light. But, if we are despaired in this situation, God will leave us. We should realize that these hardships and troubles are God's call to repent and turn back to Him. We should press on in hope after repenting and confessing what we have said and what we have done. We should not be in dismay. We should drive the desperation out and dispel the despair from our lips.
  Even though we are in this darkness, we are better than the four lepers. We are also in a better place than those who ate dove's excrement or donkey's heads in the city surrounded by the aramean army. Hence, we must not lose hope. When we steadfastly look to God for help through Jesus Christ and take our responsibilities, God will be with us. And our enemy, the devil, comes in one way but flees in seven. Inevitably, our dark reality will turn to a bright one. The amazing results of our hope will be revealed in the near future. 
Yet, the Bible also records the results of the henchmen's despair.  
  We read in 2 Kings 7:17-20, "Now the king had put the officer, on whose arm he leaned on in charge of the gate, and the people trampled him in the gateway, and he died, just as the man of God had foretold when the king came down to his house. It happened as the man of God had said to the king, 'About this time tomorrow, a seah of flour will sell for a shekel and tow seahs of barley for a shekel at the gate of Samaria.' The officer had said to the man of God, 'Look, even if the Lord should open the floodgates of the heavens, could this happen?' The man of God had replied, 'You will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat any of it!' And that is exactly what happened to him, for the people trampled him in the gateway, and he died." He who has negative faith will face death according to his faith. To be against hope is death.
  Psalm 30:4-5 says, "Sing to the Lord, you saints of His; praise His holy name. For His anger lasts only a moment, but His favor lasts a lifetime; weeping may remain for a night, but  rejoicing comes in the morning."
  Psalm 30:11-12 also tells us, "You turned my wailing into dancing; you removed my sackcloth and clothed me with joy, that my heart may sing to you and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give you thanks forever." To those who have hope will come great joy after the time of tears, for the Lord turns our sorrow into dancing. Therefore my beloved saints, we can have eternal hope in Jesus Christ at this present time and in the future. That's because Jesus loved us strongly and He still loves us. Therefore, shall troubles or hardships or nakedness or danger or famine or sword separate us from the love of Christ? No, in all these things we are more than conquerors  through Him who loved us.

-Prayer- 
  Our holy and glorious father, our Lord, realistically, there are a great many people who become faint-hearted and lose hope just as those in the Samaria citadel surrounded by the Aramean army. But we believe God gives us magnanimous liberation, emancipation and victory when we repent, confess our sins, do not give up hope in You, earnestly seek You and pray. Our father, now that You gives a hopeful message "not to give up" to us  suffering hardships caused by the IMF economy crisis and calamity, help us go ahead with hope to the end. Help us pray in the name of Jesus without dismissing hope. We pray in the name of Jesus, Amen.  
