Sunday, December 6th 1998
Title :Only   The Forceful  Men Lay   Hold of  The 
Kingdom of Heaven
Scripture Reading : Heb 4:6-11

  God prepared for  the Israelites  Canaan flowing  with 
milk and  honey.  He commanded  them  to occupy  the 
land  after   they went   through  the   wilderness.  But 
unfortunately, their first generation didn't enter the land 
and  died   in the   wilderness.  Since   they were   not 
qualified to take  Canaan, they didn't  possess the  land. 
Only their second  generation who followed  Joshua and 
Caleb could get into Canaan. 

  All of  us have  suffered from  a lot  of troubles  and 
sorrows in the wilderness of  Adam as his descendants. 
However, 2000 years ago,  the Son of  God, Jesus came 
and became a ransom  on the cross  and He is  inviting 
us to  the land   of milk with   the fivefold gospel   and 
honey with the threefold blessings. 

  Matthew 11:12 tells  us, "From the  days of John  the 
Baptist until   now, the  kingdom  of heaven   has been 
forcefully advancing, and  forceful men  lay hold  of it." 
The Canaan that Jesus  prepared, we have  to take and 
possess. Without any effort, we can't be given the  land 
of milk  and  honey with   the fivefold  gospel and   the 
threefold blessings. 
Therefore, in order to  have the Canaan  that Jesus has 
made through the cross, we  have to be qualified. Then 
what sort of qualifications should we have for the land? 

  First, we should have  certain knowledge and  a clear 
dream. If we  do not  know our identity,  we can't  use 
our ability well. Unless we  are sure of what  the grace 
God is, we  can't act.  Since the Bible  says, "You  will 
know the  truth, and  the truth  will set  you free,"  we 
must know the truth for sure. What we must not forget 
is that Jesus came and delivered us from the wilderness 
of Adam by His suffering on  the cross. Only when we 
are sure of the knowledge that  Jesus saved us through 
His suffering on the cross, can we enter Canaan. 

  The incident of Jesus' death on  the cross didn't take 
place for nothing.  When His body  was torn apart  and 
He shed blood, this was not meaningless. Therefore, we 
should  have  the   positive knowledge   that  the  Lord 
redeemed us from sin forever  through His suffering on 
the cross. We have to keep in mind that all  the sins of 
our past, present and future have been removed through 
the precious blood and suffering  of Jesus on the  cross. 
We should  know that   our enemy, the  devil,  and the 
world that captured us  have been driven  out by Jesus 
Christ and  that heaven  is in   us and the  Holy Spirit 
works in us. 

  We should also  realize that  Jesus bore  our sorrows 
and carried our sicknesses through the cross.  If we are 
ignorant of it, we can't be delivered from the devil. We 
must not fail to know this fact. We should be convinced 
that Jesus  was cursed  for our  stead and  set us  free 
from the   curse and   poverty of  suffering,  The  devil 
continues to say that it doesn't make sense: we are not 
set free from the  curse and poverty.  It is not  said by 
enemies but  by  theologians and   the Lord's  servants. 
Therefore, unless we know  the truth for  sure, we will 
be confused and deceived and we won't be able to take 
the Canaan that Christ gave us. We should also be sure 
that Jesus died for us on the cross, destroyed death and 
hell, and granted us resurrection, eternal life and heaven. 

  Only when we know the truth, can  we take it. If we 
are not sure, the  devil readily comes and  threatens us, 
"They tell a lie. It  doesn't make sense. You can't  take 
the land.  There  is no   miracle. It  passed away.   The 
times of miracles have gone."  The devil deceives us  in 
various manners. We have to overcome the deception of 
the devil and keep the fact  that Christ redeemed us on 
the cross so  that, though  we can't see,  hear and  feel 
anything, we can have  steadfast faith standing firm  on 
the grace   and promises   of God.   With such   certain 
knowledge, we   should have  the  dream that   we will 
become certain types  of people  in the future.  Through 
the cross, the old has  gone and the new has  come. So 
we should have a clear dream  for the new person who 
has  received   the fivefold   gospel  and   the threefold 
blessings.

  We must  have the  dream that  since  God made  us 
certain types of people through the cross,  we should be 
such people.  We need   a dream, for   we can advance 
toward the dream. Without a dream, we have no goal to 
live, run and  fight for.  We must  have a  clear dream 
about the new  person that  Jesus made  for us  on the 
cross.  Then we can enter the  Canaan of Jesus Christ. 
Since the Lord  gives life to  the dead and  calls things 
that are not as though they were, if we consider things 
that are not as though they were and  act with faith as 
if they were, the devil  will flee away. The  devil won't 
draw   back   easily.  Only   when   we   have  certain 
knowledge and   a stable   dream, the   devil will   stop 
resisting us and run away; otherwise, he'll laugh  at us. 
Unaware of the truth, we won't be able to  get into the 
Canaan  of  Christ.   Because the   Israelites  were  not 
convinced of   the promise   of God,  they  didn't  enter 
Canaan. 

  Secondly, we can get  into the Canaan of  Christ only 
when we have an earnest desire.  Though we know the 
truth of   Christ, but   unless we  have  a  fervent  and 
desperate desire,   we can't  enter into   the truth.  God 
works based on the desire in our hearts.

  Philippians 2:13 says, "It is God who works in you to 
will and  to act  according to  His good   purpose." The 
Lord  never  works   for those   who  have  no  desire. 
According to Mark 10:51, "What do you want me  to do 
for you?' Jesus asked him. The blind  man said, 'Rabbi, 
I want to see.' Jesus said, 'Your  faith has healed you.' 
"Jesus checked if  the blind  man had  a desire  or not. 
The Lord doesn't  work for those  who have no  desire. 
Therefore, we must  have a fervent  and earnest desire. 
As the hungry look for something to eat,  the sick wish 
to be cured, and the poor have a strong wish to be free 
from poverty, so we must have  such an earnest desire. 
A miserable widow said to  an unjust judge, "Grant me 
justice against my adversary." The Lord  said, "Will not 
God bring about justice for His chosen ones?" When we 
have a strong plea  in our hearts,  we can cry  out and 
pray  fervently.  We   must not   pray  just   once, but 
persistently. With  dreams, visions  and fervent  desires, 
we have to cry out. 

  Jeremiah 33:3 tells us, "Call  to me and I will  answer 
you and tell you great  and unsearchable things you  do 
not know." You won't cry out without an  unquenchable 
desire. Someone may  say that  people cry  out in  loud 
voices while praying and we must pray quietly. We can 
be quiet when we  are not desperate.  How can we not 
cry out with desperate grudges? God told us to cry out, 
"Ask and it  will be  given to  you; seek  and you  will 
find; knock and the  door will be  opened to you." How 
earnest it is to ask, seek,  and cry out! That's why we 
have to  pray fervently.  The Lord  says, "Because  you 
are lukewarm -- neither hot nor cold -- I am  about to 
spit you out  of my mouth."   When we seek  the Lord 
earnestly and  pray fervently,  we  can resist  the devil 
and enter the Canaan of Jesus.

  Thirdly, we   must have  bold  faith. We   should not 
compromise with  wavering faith.  The Bible  says, "He 
who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed 
by the wind. That man should not think he will receive 
anything from  the  Lord." Faith  is  the choice   of our 
minds. That's  why the  Lord  rebuked those  who had 
weak  and  little  faith.  For  they  didn't  choose  faith 
though  they  could  believe.  How  foolish  if   He had 
rebuked those  who  couldn't believe!   Since God  gave 
each of us the  measure of faith, we  can believe. Faith 
is  the  choice  of  our  minds.  That's  why  the  Lord 
rebuked His  disciples when  He  made the  wind calm, 
"Why are you so afraid, you of little faith?" If they had 
had  no  faith,  He  couldn't   have rebuked   them. He 
rebuked them, because they didn't take  faith but doubt. 
To Peter who was sinking, the Lord said, "You of  little 
faith. Why  did you  doubt?" Peter  shouldn't have  had 
doubt but he did so he  was rebuked. The Lord said  to 
a woman, "Woman, you have great faith. It will be done 
as you believed." The  woman chose faith.  Faith is the 
choice. It is not right  if we say, "That  man has much 
faith but  I have  little." Because  that man  chose faith 
but I chose unbelief. You should  know that faith is the 
choice of your mind.  That's why you  may be rebuked 
for little faith and have compliments for great faith. For 
faith is up to you.  Therefore, we must take  bold faith. 
When our   ancestor of   faith, Abraham,  was  100,  he 
chose the  way of  faith. He  could  have had  a lot  of 
situations to  doubt but  he  put away  doubt and   took 
faith. 

  Romans 4:18-22 states, "Against all hope, Abraham in 
hope  believed  and   so became   the  father  of  many 
nations, just as it had been said  to him, 'So shall your 
offspring be.' Without weakening  in his faith,  he faced 
the fact that his body was as good as dead -- since he 
was about  a hundred  years  old --  and that  Sarah's 
womb was  also dead.  Yet he  did not  waver through 
unbelief   regarding  the   promise  of   God,  but   was 
strengthened in his faith  and gave glory to  God, being 
fully persuaded that God had power to do what  He had 
promised. This   is why   "it was  credited  to  him  as 
righteousness." 

  Through this scripture, we can see that Abraham had 
many conditions to doubt.  Yet he didn't  take doubt or 
unbelief,  but  faith.  He  made  a  resolution  for  faith. 
Though he didn't see, hear and  feel anything, he chose 
faith. Jesus said  in Matthew  21:21-22, "I  tell you  the 
truth, if you have faith and  do not doubt, not only  can 
you do what was done to the fig tree, but also you can 
say to this mountain, 'Go, throw  yourself into the sea,' 
and it  will be  done.  If you  believe, you   will receive 
whatever you ask  in prayer."  Here the Bible  says, "If 
you have   faith and  do not   doubt." Doesn't  it mean 
"choice"? When there  are faith  and doubt,  if we  take 
faith and decide not to doubt, miracles will occur. 

  Today, many  people misunderstand  faith. They  may 
say, "I have  little faith so  I doubt. I  can't due to  my 
weak faith." Yet, it is  a lie. For they decided  to doubt. 
They do   not believe  because  they  chose doubt   and 
made up their  minds to  throw away  faith. No  matter 
how terrible   the circumstances,   deceptions and  trials 
may be, if we  decide to believe,  we can have faith.  If 
we  trust  in   God, thank   and  praise   Him for   His 
faithfulness like Abraham, we will have true faith. If we 
trust God that  He will  keep His  promise without fail, 
thank Him, overcome any  affliction, worship and praise 
Him, we can enter Canaan flowing with milk and honey 
that He granted us.

  Fourth, we  should  be strengthened   and bold.  It is 
natural that winds should blow toward us in our senses 
and circumstances. We  have to know  that when Peter 
was walking  on the  water, there  was not  only Jesus 
but also the wind. You may ask, "Why should we have 
troubles and hardship? Why should we  face the wind?" 
Though Jesus is with us,  adversity and suffering come 
to us in the same way.  Yet, Jesus can overcome them. 
If Peter had walked, only looking to Jesus, it  might not 
have mattered how  strong the  billows and  the waves 
were and  he  could have  come  up to  Jesus.  Yet, he 
looked down and was afraid of the wind and waves and 
sank into the water. 

  Therefore, we have to be strong and bold. We should 
have courage. In this world, there is not only Jesus  but 
also sin, sickness, poverty, sorrow, death, and adversity. 
Those who have no courage will be terrified  with them 
and give  up Jesus.  Those who  are not  bold will  not 
have faith today. We should have faith not just in mind 
but in heart,  and we must  advance with boldness  and 
courage.  Looking  to  God  who  is  greater   than our 
circumstance and meditating on His word, we should be 
strengthened. Impressed  by his  faith, I  often think  of 
David. Though he was  so young, but  he yelled at  the 
general Goliath,   "You come  against  me  with  sword, 
spear and javelin, but  I come against you  in the name 
of the Lord Almighty,  the God of the  armies of Israel, 
whom you   have defied."   How great   his faith   was! 
Imagine that young  David told the  giant Goliath, "You 
come against me  with sword, spear  and javelin,  but I 
come against you  in the  name of  the Lord  Almighty, 
the God  of the  armies of  Israel." How  bold  he was! 
How courageous and brave he was!

   Therefore,   we   should   not   be   afraid   of   our 
circumstances,   looking   to   God.   During  my   long 
pastoring period,   I often   heard my  church  members 
complain, "Pastor,  why should  I face  this trial  if you 
visited my home?  Why am I  sick more if  you prayed 
for me?  Why does  something  awful come  up if   you 
blessed me?"  Something  terrible is  to  come up.   The 
thief comes only to  steal, kill and  destroy. If the  devil 
didn't attack us, He would have disappeared or died. As 
long as   the devil   lives, He  will  try  to  destroy us 
desperately. The   Bible says,   "Your enemy  the  devil 
prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to 
devour. Resist   him, standing  firm in   the faith."  The 
devil is   alive and   his kingdom  is  being  taken  and 
destroyed, then how does he stand? The more blessings 
God gives, the  more strongly  the devil works.  Do we 
need to   run away   though nothing  happens?  If  God 
intends to  bless us,   the devil comes  in  advance and 
attacks us so severely  as to discourage  us before God 
blesses us. 

  Therefore, no matter what terrible  situations we face, 
we must   only look  to Jesus,   once we  believed. We 
should be  strengthened and   courageous, depending on 
God who is  greater than  those circumstances.  Though 
nothing is seen, heard, and felt  in pitch-black darkness, 
we should   speak and   act with   positive, active   and 
creative attitudes. Yet,  at just  a little  difficulty, if  we 
grumble, "God has abandoned me. He promised to  bless 
us, but why does this terrible thing  happen to me? Oh, 
I have failed," the devil will dance with pleasure saying, 
"I have   succeeded to   tempt the   man. Though   God 
works, he will  not be  blessed because  he is  negative 
according to  my  temptation." Then  God  will be   sad. 
The Israelites   were in   that situation.   Although God 
promised them to enter the  land flowing with milk and 
honey, they complained  whenever they faced  adversity. 
We are to have hardships.

   How  do  we   avoid trials   in  this  cursed   earth? 
However, if we  trust and rely  on God, He  will surely 
win. Hence He urges us to  believe in Him. Those who 
fear trouble should  not challenge.  Those who  advance 
with faith must face adversity. Despite that, if  we trust 
God with  boldness and  courage, we'll  be able  to get 
into the land flowing with milk and honey.

  Fifth, we should not be  proud of just a little  victory. 
The Israelites  compromised  with the  Canaanites  even 
before they  occupied all  the land.  We read  in Joshua 
17:13,   "When   the   Israelites   grew  stronger,   they 
subjected the  Canaanites  to forced  labor  but did   not 
drive them out completely." 

  Numbers 33:55-56 says, "If you  do not drive out  the 
inhabitants of the land,  those you allow  to remain will 
become barbs in  your eyes  and thorns  in your  sides. 
They will give you  trouble in the land  where you will 
live. And then  I will do  to you  what I plan  to do to 
them." If we believe in the Lord,  we can't win at once 
but little by little. It won't be done at the moment. You 
may ask, "Why am I not  healed completely though you 
put your hands on  me and prayed?"  If you are  healed 
just 30 percent, you should be healed 50 percent through 
more prayer, 70, 90  and 100 percent. The  devil doesn't 
disappear at  once. He  goes out   step by step.  That's 
why we must not be depressed  though our prayers are 
not answered  right away.  Nor should  we be  satisfied 
with just a little victory  and stop praying. We  have to 
keep on praying and crying out until the devil is totally 
removed  and  driven out.  We  should not  be content 
with just accepting  Jesus but  we should expel  all the 
worldly things: drinking, smoking, gambling  and all the 
important  things  in   the world.   We  should  not  be 
satisfied with salvation  but take  the land beyond  that. 
We have to drive out all the  bad things. We are saved 
by faith in Jesus, but we should expel all the sicknesses 
from our  bodies: lung   disease, heart disease,   arthritis 
and diabetes. Then we can be strong. We should not be 
proud of just a little  victory. Though we are  saved by 
faith in Jesus, we have to be  blessed to bless and help 
others. In  order for  that, we  should work  harder and 
continue to push  out poverty  to be  blessed more. We 
must not be proud nor  compromise with the devil until 
we have victory 100 percent. 

  The Israelites are divided into two: those who lived in 
the wilderness and those who lived in Canaan with milk 
and honey. They are  chosen people, but  some of them 
died in the wilderness and  the others enjoyed milk and 
honey in Canaan  and died there.  It was not  God who 
made them live like that but  they took the way. Those 
who were  not qualified  stayed  in the  wilderness and 
those who were qualified occupied  Canaan. Even today, 
some people   believe in   Jesus and   live only   in the 
wilderness of Adam but others in Canaan of Jesus. God 
doesn't divide   us but  we  ourselves  take  our ways. 
That's why  we  have to  be  qualified: We   should be 
certain of knowledge and clear dreams; We should have 
fervent desires and earnest prayers;  We should make a 
resolution  of  faith;  We  should  be  strengthened  and 
courageous; We should  not be afraid  of any adversity; 
We should not be proud  of a little victory but  keep on 
advancing until we  take what God  prepared; Then  we 
can live  in Canaan.   Unless we are  qualified,  we are 
proud of our salvation and place one foot in Canaan and 
the other one in the wilderness of Adam, facing troubles 
and sorrows and being deprived of grace  and privileges 
by the devil  and will die.  May you enjoy  good health 
and all go well with  you, even as your  soul is getting 
along well, so  that you may  have life  to the full  and 
give to others but borrow from none! 

(Prayer)

  Heavenly God  our  Father who  has  great love   and 
holiness! Today many Christians place one  of their feet 
on the land of Christ and the other in the wilderness of 
Adam, face a  lot of sorrows  and suffering, and  finally 
die. They do not enjoy the privilege that the  Lord gave 
us. The  scripture says,   "From the days   of John the 
Baptist until   now, the  kingdom  of heaven   has been 
forcefully advancing, and  forceful men  lay hold  of it." 
We should take  it but  not just  hesitate. Dear  Father! 
Help us be qualified to  be warriors of prayer and  faith 
and take the  kingdom of heaven.  Please, bless us  that 
we  may  destroy  the  work  of  the  Devil  and  have 
victorious lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
