Sunday, December 13th 1998
Title : The Shepherd and Sheep
Scripture Reading : Jn 10:11-16

  New Zealand must  have the  largest pastures  in the 
world. Almost all plain lands are  cultivated as pastures. 
The  number  of  sheep  is  greater  than  the  nation's 
population. What  is surprising  is that  we cannot  find 
shepherds taking care of the sheep. They are left in the 
fields because   there are   no wild  animals  like  lions, 
tigers or wolves in New  Zealand.  New Zealand is  the 
paradise of sheep. It is not so in Israel.  Almost  all the 
land is barren and it is not easy to find water.  Besides, 
there are wild animals like lions and wolves threatening 
the lives  of the  sheep.  The  land is  not smooth  but 
rough. It is like the valley of the shadow of death. It is 
very hard  for sheep  to live   without a shepherd.  The 
desert of  Israel is  very  similar to  the world   we are 
living  in.  We  are  living  in  the   desert that   Adam 
brought. We are exposed to enemies who seek our lives. 
It is hard to  find plants or  water. We see valleys  and 
rough roads ahead of us.  We need a good  and truthful 
shepherd. It would be very  hard, painful and dangerous 
to live without  a shepherd.  The Lord  said, "I  am the 
good shepherd." David also confessed, "The  Lord is my 
shepherd, I  shall not  be in  want." The  Bible declares 
that God and we have  the same relationship as that  of 
the shepherd and sheep.

  First, we must know what  Jesus, the Shepherd, does 
for us.  Jesus finds   the lost sheep   in the desert  and 
gathers them into church. Man has  gone away into the 
world since the fall of Adam and Eve.  Man wanders in 
the  desert,  toiling,  suffering,   being beaten   by  wild 
beasts, and being destroyed. The Lord has come to seek 
His sheep.   Since He  is our   shepherd, He  seeks the 
sheep that He will take care of.  How does He do that? 
He seeks us through evangelism.  

  1 Corinthians 1:21 says,  "For since in the  wisdom of 
God the world  through its wisdom  did not know  Him, 
God was   pleased with  the  foolishness  of what   was 
preached to save those who believe."  It looks foolish to 
preach the gospel. We  doubt whether we  can lead our 
neighbors to  God  by speaking   to them.  I also   have 
doubts and ask  myself, "Will  he listen  to me  and be 
converted? Will he believe in  Jesus and come to God?" 
However, people hear  the foolishness  of our  preaching 
and come to the Lord Jesus because our Shepherd saves 
His sheep through the foolishness of what  is preached." 
The words of our preaching  will find the lost  sheep in 
the desert and lead them into the pen because the sheep 
of the  Lord listen  and  follow the  voice of   the Lord. 
When a  person hears  the gospel,   he will think,  "Ah! 
This is the voice  of the Lord." The  sheep of the Lord 
hear the voice of the Lord.  

  John 10:1-3 says, "I tell  you the truth, the  man who 
does not enter the sheep pen by the gate, but climbs  in 
by some other way,  is a thief  and a robber. The  man 
who enters by  the gate  is the  shepherd of his  sheep.  
The watchman opens  the gate for  him, and  the sheep 
listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and 
leads  them  out."  When  Jesus  calls  our  names  and 
approaches us through the  preaching of the  gospel, we 
will listen and  follow Him if  we are His.  Since all  of 
you are the sheep of  the Lord, you are touched  by the 
gospel.  You  have  followed  His  voice  and  come  to 
church--the pen. Therefore,  what Jesus,  the Shepherd, 
does is  to seek  His  sheep and  gather them  into  the 
pen--the church. Jesus makes us  into new creations in 
the church. God  made us  from the dust  and made  us 
living souls   by breathing  into our   nostrils. However, 
Jesus made us anew through His suffering on the cross. 
Jesus took   all of   our old   nature to  the  cross  and 
crucified it. By  His shed blood  and torn body,  we are 
dead and buried. Through His resurrection, we are made 
new creations. Therefore our Shepherd calls us from the 
desert into His  pen and  makes us  new creations.  We 
are not  given a   religion, a ceremony,  a  ritual or  an 
education. We have become new creations through Jesus 
Christ. Whoever is in Christ is a new  creation. The old 
has gone, the  new has  come! We  are totally different 
from the old beings.

  Our  Lord   forgives  all   our  sins  and   makes  us 
righteous. He seals  us with  righteousness. He  delivers 
us from  the world  of the  devil and  fills us  with the 
Holy Spirit  and heaven.  He delivers  us from  sorrows 
and pain.  He heals  us  from diseases.  He delivers  us 
from curses, poverty and hopelessness. He blesses us as 
descendants of Abraham.  He gives resurrection,  eternal 
life and heaven to us.  

  Therefore we must know that we  are made anew by 
following Him.   We are  new creations   in Christ.  We 
should  not  dwell  in   the old   nature.  We  are  new 
creations. Our  Shepherd raises  us with  His word  and 
the Spirit.  He has given us  the word so that we  may 
live on it.  We drink the  living water  through prayers. 
We grow  with  the word   and the  Spirit. We   cannot 
grow when we don't have the  word or when we don't 
drink the living water of the Spirit. We must hear, read 
and meditate  on the  word and   must drink the  living 
water through prayers.  

  John 7:37-38 says,  "On the last  and greatest day  of 
the Feast,  Jesus  stood and  said  in a  loud  voice, 'If 
anyone  is  thirsty,  let  him  come  to  me  and  drink. 
Whoever believes   in me,  as  the  Scripture  has said, 
streams of living water will flow from within him.'" He 
helps us to grow.  He wants our  souls to grow in  His 
image and  wants us  to be   qualified to enter  heaven, 
enjoying all   the glories  of  God.  Therefore we   must 
grow by hearing,  reading and  meditating on  the word 
and by drinking  the living water.  Then our  souls will 
grow day after day. Our Shepherd  refines us by letting 
us go through sufferings  and troubles and  He changes 
us into spiritual beings through them.  

  He not only  blesses us  while we  live on  earth but 
also lets   us go  through  the  valleys and   tunnels of 
sufferings and trials. We  are refined by  the sufferings. 
As we peel bananas,  the Lord peels  our old habits  off 
through sufferings  and  thus makes  us  more obedient 
and more  faithful.  Therefore,   rejoice when you   face 
trials because your old selves will be peeled off and you 
will be changed into  spiritual beings. He who  does not 
go through   sufferings and  trials cannot   grow. As  a 
butterfly comes out of  its cocoon, we are  changed into 
glorious beings through sufferings and trials.
  When we  look back,  we  will realize  that we   have 
changed through various trials and  sufferings. We have 
taken off our  old selves  and have changed  anew. Our 
Lord peels  and changes  us when  we go  through  the 
valley of the  shadow of  death and  makes us  glorious 
children of God.  

  The ultimate purpose of our Shepherd is to lead us to 
heaven. The material world does not last forever. It will 
pass away  like a  stream of  water. He  who cherishes 
this world will be destroyed with it.  However, the Lord 
came to   earth, calls   His sheep,   leads them   to His 
pen--the church--changes  them, and  raises them.  His 
goal of doing this is to give the eternal kingdom to His 
sheep. We will approach God through  Christ, participate 
in the Wedding  Feast, inherit the  whole universe  with 
Christ, and live with God forever.  

  We are  not destroyed   even when our  tents  of the 
flesh collapse. The Bible  says that each and  every one 
of us is  created in God's  image. It also  says that we 
must worship God in spirit  and truth for God is  Spirit.  
We are   more than  just  bodies.  We are   spirits. We 
wouldn't seek God  if we were  only bodies.  There are 
so many monkeys in India but a monkey  does not seek 
God or have a religion.  

  Monkeys never   build temples   or churches  because 
they don't have  spirits.  They  have some  intelligence 
but cannot seek God for they don't have spirits. On the 
other hand,   all the  races  of man--from   Pygmies in 
Africa to Eskimos--have  religions. Because man  has a 
spirit, man's  spirit  seeks the   eternal being. Although 
man  can   go  to   something  wrong   like  idols  and 
superstitions, man's spirit seeks something eternal.  

  Communism persecuted religions  for 70  years in  the 
past. After Communism collapsed,  however, surprisingly 
there are  so  many people   who fervently  believe and 
trust God. Man has a spirit and the spirit seeks eternity 
and the Supreme Being. Therefore, our Lord is the good 
Shepherd who saves our inner beings and  leads us into 
the glories of heaven.

  Second, what should we do as His sheep? We are His 
sheep. Now that we have followed Jesus,  our Shepherd, 
what should we do? We must have absolute trust in the 
love of the shepherd. David confessed, "The Lord is my 
shepherd, I shall not  be in want." We  must know that 
our Shepherd will guide us through  when we trust and 
follow Him.  God  will lead  us  to green  pastures  and 
beside quiet  waters  so that   we will lie   down, drink 
water and receive God's  blessings. He will  restore our 
souls and   take our   hands in   order for   us to   live 
righteously in   a sinful  world.  We   must follow  our 
Shepherd with absolute  faith. If  we do not  trust Him, 
He cannot  guide us.  Once we  have believed  in Jesus 
Christ as  our Shepherd,  we must  know  that He  will 
take care of  us. We must  leave our lives  to Him and 
follow Him no matter  what happens. We belong  to the 
Shepherd. We must follow Him.  

  Our Shepherd   is our  good  God. God   is the  good 
Shepherd who takes care of us in everything. Therefore, 
our Lord  will take  care of  us in   everything such as 
what to eat, what to wear and what to drink. Are there 
parents who  do not   take care of  their  children? Are 
there shepherds who  do not  take care  of their sheep? 
Our God   takes care  of us   even now.  God fills   our 
needs,   gives   spiritual   lives,   and   leads   us   into 
righteousness.  

  Psalm 37:5-6 says, "Commit  your way to the  LORD; 
trust in Him  and He will  do this:  He will make  your 
righteousness shine like  the dawn,  the justice  of your 
cause like the noonday sun." God  is not far away from 
us. God transcends time  and space and  stays with us. 
We belong   to His   household. When   we follow   our 
Shepherd   and   seek  first   His   kingdom   and   His 
righteousness, He  will  provide for  us.  We must  also 
know that  we will   not be forsaken   even at time   of 
distress. When  things go   wrong, people are  likely  to 
think that God  has forsaken  them. However, our  good 
Shepherd will never leave His sheep even at the time of 
trouble. We must believe it.  

  Psalm 23:4  says, "Even  though  I walk  through the 
valley of the  shadow of death,  I will  fear no evil,  for 
you are with me; your rod and your staff,  they comfort 
me." Even when  our parents, brothers  and sisters, and 
friends forsake us in the valley of the shadow  of death, 
Jesus will be with  us and rescue  us from it  with His 
almighty power and authority.

  Isaiah 43:2 says, "When you pass through the waters, 
I will  be with  you; and   when you pass  through the 
rivers, they will  not sweep  over you. When  you walk 
through the fire, you will not be burned; the flames will 
not set you ablaze." Therefore,  we should not be  weak 
at the time of trouble. Paul said, "in all these things we 
are more than conquerors  through Him who  loved us." 
Jesus died on the cross, was buried  and resurrected for 
us. There is no suffering or trouble that Jesus didn't go 
through. There is  no pain  or trouble  that He  did not 
overcome.  Therefore we  are more than  conquerors in 
Jesus Christ.  

  The Bible says God comes sitting  enthroned over the 
flood.  We  will  face a   lot of  flood of   troubles and 
sufferings in the course  of our lives. We  had a severe 
flood last summer that  swept several towns  and cities. 
A flood is dreadful.  However, God comes  to us sitting 
enthroned over   the flood  of life's   troubles and  pain. 
Therefore, we should not concentrate on the  flood alone 
but go to  the Lord,  kneel before  Him and accept  and 
trust Him  instead of  complaining  or fleeing  from the 
flood. Then the Lord will come down from the flood and 
stop it. Why  should the flood  continue to  come if the 
Lord does not need to sit on it? The  Lord comes to us 
sitting enthroned  over the  flood because  He wants  to 
break us and to  bless us. We  will never be  destroyed 
by the flood since the Lord comes to us with  the flood. 
When we break ourselves and repent of our sins  at the 
time of  trouble,  our Lord   will pour  more grace   and 
blessings on us through the flood.  

  In the course of  our lives, there  are times when the 
enemies attack us.  They  come to devour,  capture and 
kill us. The thieves come to steal to kill and to destroy. 
However, since we  have the  Shepherd, we  should not 
be bewildered but follow the Shepherd.

  Psalm 27:1-3 says,  "The LORD is  my light and  my 
salvation--whom  shall   I  fear?   The  LORD  is   the 
stronghold of my life--of whom shall I be afraid? When 
evil men advance against me to devour  my flesh, when 
my enemies and my  foes attack me,  they will stumble 
and fall. Though an army besiege me, my heart will not 
fear; though war break out against me, even then will I 
be confident."  

  Psalm 23:5 also says, "You prepare a  table before me 
in the  presence of  my enemies.  You anoint   my head 
with oil; my cup overflows." Our Shepherd fights for us. 
Although  we  cannot   confront lions   or  wolves,  our 
Shepherd fights them for us and rescues  us from them. 
Therefore, even when  the enemies  come to  attack us, 
let us look at, praise and trust the Lord without fearing 
them. That  is because  the Lord  uses this  opportunity 
and prepares a table for us in front of them so that we 
will overcome them. He will also anoint  our heads with 
oil and our cups will overflow.  

  We should know  that our ultimate  destination is the 
house of the Father.  There is no eternal place on earth. 
We pass  by as  pilgrims and   wanderers. It would  be 
foolish to insist on living on earth forever.  Silver, gold, 
wealth, power or authority cannot make us  live forever.  
Time flies swiftly. All  the people will  leave this world 
and  enter  heaven   or hell--eternal   glory  or  eternal 
shame.
  Revelation 7:17 says, "For  the Lamb at the  center of 
the throne will be their  shepherd; He will lead them  to 
springs of living water. And God will  wipe away every 
tear from their eyes."  When we enter the house of our 
Father, Jesus will be our shepherd, lead us to springs of 
living water, and wipe away  every tear from our  eyes. 
The Lord  said,  "Do not  let  your hearts   be troubled. 
Trust in God;  trust also in  me. In my  Father's house 
are many rooms;  if it were  not so, I  would have told 
you. I am going there to prepare a place for you. And if 
I go and prepare a place for you,  I will come back and 
take you to be with  me that you also may  be where I 
am."  
  Paul also said, "Now we know that if the earthly tent 
we live in is  destroyed, we have  a building from God, 
an eternal house in heaven, not  built by human hands." 
Since our  Shepherd leads  us there,   we must set  our 
goals on  the eternal  house of   the Father. We  should 
never turn from  it. Our  ultimate goal  is to go  to the 
house of the Father. We must  dedicate our lives to the 
shepherd.  The shepherd  keeps his flock  to gain  wool 
from the  sheep. The  Lord provides  us with  food and 
blessings. All the  blessings and  riches are the  hair of 
the sheep. We must put all the  blessings and riches on 
the altar  and use   them for His   glory. To Christians 
nothing we   have is   ours. Since   all the   riches and 
blessings come from  the Lord,  we must  put them  on 
the altar and give them to the Lord whenever He needs 
them.
  1 Corinthians   10:31 says,  "So  whether you   eat or 
drink or  whatever you  do, do  it all  for  the glory  of 
God."  2  Corinthians  9:10  also  says,  "Now  He  who 
supplies seed to the sower and  bread for food will also 
supply and increase your store of seed  and will enlarge 
the harvest of your  righteousness." And Matthew 22:37 
says, "Jesus replied: 'Love  the Lord your  God with all 
your heart  and with  all your  soul  and with  all your 
mind.'"  

  Therefore, we must put ourselves  on the altar of  the 
Lord.  We must  say to Him,  "Shave the hair  of your 
sheep. Use me and my possessions the way  you want." 
We must   follow our  Shepherd  with  this  attitude of 
dedication. The sheep give their bodies as an offering or 
food. They give their  bodies on the altar  of God or to 
the shepherd for food.  

  Romans 12:1-2 says, "Therefore, I urge you,  brothers, 
in view of God's  mercy, to offer your  bodies as living 
sacrifices,  holy  and   pleasing to   God--this  is   your 
spiritual act of worship.  Do not conform  any longer to 
the pattern  of this  world, but   be transformed by  the 
renewing of your  mind. Then you  will be able  to test 
and approve what God's will is--His good, pleasing and 
perfect  will."   We  must   offer  our  lives   as  living 
sacrifices to God. We  must give our  lives to the  Lord 
and live as His slaves. This is  what the sheep have to 
do. The sheep must obey and  follow the shepherd with 
absolute faith and dedicate their lives to the shepherd.

  The shepherd  and sheep  depend on  each other.  We 
live with Jesus and cannot  live without His help. Jesus 
also trusts  us in  establishing the  kingdom of  heaven. 
We must live with Jesus forever.  

  John 10:14-16 says, "I am the good  shepherd; I know 
my sheep and my  sheep know me--just as  the Father 
knows me and I know the  Father--and I lay down my 
life for the  sheep. I  have other  sheep that are  not of 
this sheep pen.  I must bring  them also. They  too will 
listen to my voice, and there shall be one flock and one 
shepherd." If Israelites  are physically  chosen people  of 
the Lord, we are spiritually chosen people  of His. Jesus 
said that He needed to bring other  sheep that were not 
of this sheep pen--the Gentiles. We are Gentiles but the 
Shepherd has  brought us  to dwell  in the  church, His 
pen.  

  Therefore we are not  the sheep which are  without a 
shepherd. We  are not  the wild  animals in  the desert. 
Our Shepherd stays  with us  and takes  care of  us 24 
hours a day. We are  precious lambs of God.  Jesus our 
Shepherd sacrificed Himself for us. Our Lord  will never 
forsake or  leave us.  He is  the Shepherd  with all  the 
authority of heaven and earth. When we look at, believe 
in and  trust Him,  He  will lead  us into  His  pastures 
where we  receive spiritual  and physical  blessings  and 
the life of the Lord to the full.
