January, 11th, 1998
Title : Jehovah Sits Enthroned Over the Flood
Scripture Reading : Psalm 29:10-11

  (part 1)Today, I would like to deliver a message titled, "Jehovah Sits Enthroned Over the Flood."
Through the news, we have seen accidents by an unusual change of weather called El Nino phenomenon which brings about great flood due to heavy snow and heavy rain so that the bridges may be broken and the whole cities may be under water. Something may remain after a fire, but a flood will sweep away everything. So a flood is a really awful disaster. (part 2)Recently, economy and people's whole life in Korea are sweeping away by the flood of financial crisis, not by a flooding which is natural disaster. We are at the risk, by which Korea will be found bankrupt so nothing will be left. Indonesia and Thailand, which also face the IMF crisis with Korea, are said they are on the brink of moratorium, that is to say, national bankruptcy. What will be Korea's future? How should we prepare to get away from this crisis?

  First, today's scripture reading tells us that the Lord sits  enthroned over the flood. A flood is a great water which runs in a dreadful speed. Yet the Bible says God sits on the flood. We feel terrible about the destructive power of the flood, but very often we may not see the Lord who sits enthroned over the flood. Unless the Bible reveals it to us we may have been discouraged by looking only at the flood. However, when we consider that the Lord so loves us that He gave His only Son Jesus and comes to us at the time of the flood, fear will disappear from us and we will overflow with comfort and peace. God sits on the flood and comes to us. When the flood of trial comes, we should consider it as the sound of a cart which the Lord rides on. That's why we should not fear the flood nor hide ourselves. We should accept the flood and the Lord who rides on it, then we can overcome the flood. 
  People may ask, "Why does the Lord come to us by cart?" That's because the flood gives us a message. Since He can't teach us without the flood, He comes to us by flood. If we receive a message of the flood, God will get off the flood and come to us. Unless we understand the message from the flood, God will continue to test us by flood. 
  Why does the flood come to us? Because trial breaks us (part 3)Before facing the flood, people are haughty, arrogant and stiff-necked. Look back how haughty, arrogant and stiff-necked our people were! When Korea developed and got riches, we were arrogant, showing off at home and abroad. At a time when we, our communities and nation are haughty and arrogant, God sends the flood and breaks our haughtiness. Suffering breaks us to pieces and help look our beings. Not until struck down by a flood, do we kneel down and humble ourselves before God.
  This IMF crisis breaks down Korean people in the shape of greate flood. This flood approached Korea to make the government, companies, laborers and Korean people broken and kneel down before God. 
  And also trial changes us. We can change our thoughts and ways of life only when the great flood comes. In comfort and stability, the thoughts and ways of life of people will never be changed. For example, because of the terrible flood of IMF, our thoughts and behaviors are being changed. The government and conglomerates should change their thoughts and actions so that they may begin to reconstruct systems, and so should the laborers.(part 4)Laborers have insisted lay-offs not be done. However, without the lay-offs, the whole nation may be destroyed. Even though some people suffer hardship, that should be done. Either survival or destruction depends on the lay-offs. At this juncture, laborers should change their thought and behavior. Moreover, owing to this trouble, our nation is changed and begins to be thrifty and to save, throwing away extravagance, luxury and waste, but cooperates in a campaign to gather gold. (part 5)However, in the middle of this situation, there are many people who fink out our nation. In spite of the fact that the whole people collect gold, even baby's rings which celebrate its first birthday to save nation, some bad people buy gold thinking, 'When gold becomes scarce, its price will sore.' These kind of people are not true Korean. They are traitors. These people are the same as those who sold Korea to Japan. These people deserve to be criticized by all Korean. These people should be changed by the flood. Our nation won't be changed by ourselves in a generation, but is tremendously changed by the flood the Lord gave. This change means that we have hope in the future. When we correct our faults and are changed, we will have hope this coming 21st century. 
  Romans 5:3-5 says, "Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings, because we know that suffering produces perseverance; perseverance, character; and character, hope."  This trouble brings us greater hope. The Lord comes by flood, for the trial drives out our greed and makes our hearts empty. If people are full of greed and become the captives of physical  and visual pleasure and worldly pride, and commit sin for their greed, they will never be changed. Yet, if troubles come, this greed goes away and make our hearts empty. The Lord pours His word and blessings into the empty hearts but not into the hearts full of greed.  At the flood, the Lord comes with a loud sound, for the flood brings us a grave message. The flood tells us to be broken, changed, and to empty our hearts. If our lives are changed through this flood, we will have hope. If we receive the message of the flood, God no longer need to ride the cart of the flood.  He will get off the flood and begin to dwell in us. 
  Secondly, the scripture tells us that the Lord will sit enthroned forever. We should realize that. God is a creator of everything; He created heaven, earth, the world, and everything in it. If people think that this world happened to be made, they must be stupid. God didn't only make all things but also is Manager of them, alpha and omega, and beginning and end. Therefore, the Bible clearly says that God is the King who controls the flood which comes to us. We can see that through the old testament. There were three captives of the Jews named Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego in Babylon. They worked as governors in Babylon under the king, Nebuchadnezzar. When the king made an image of gold and set it up on the plain of Dura, and summoned all the provincial officials to bow down to that image, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego didn't. They served God, the King of kings and the Lord of lords. The commandment of God is "You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not bow down to idols." Since Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego were the Jews, they couldn't bow down to the idol. All the people bowed down to the image the king, Nebuchad- nezzar, had set up, but Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego didn't, so the king got angry and told them to be thrown into a blazing furnace unless they bow down at the trumpet sound. Then what did Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego say? They said, "We won't bow down to the image of gold. If you throw us into the blazing furnace, our Lord will rescue us. Though He doesn't save us, we will 
not bow down to your image." They faced a flood of severe trial. They were forced to worship an idol, but they had a strong faith in God and decided to obey God only. 
  When Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego were thrown into a blazing furnace, the fourth man appeared and danced with them in the fire, but they did not be burned at all. The king Nebuchadnezzar saw that scene and said that the fourth man looked like the Son of God. In fact, He was our Lord, Jesus Christ. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were called out by the king, but they were not burned at all. For God is the One who controls the flood. When they devoted themselves to God, He controlled the flood of a great wrath and judgment. The Lord who controlled a fire and rescued people sits enthroned over the flood of any temptation and suffering today. God is the King who rules over angels, people, nature and everything. Therefore, if we accept God who comes by cart of flood, He will get off the flood and dwell in us. The flood will go away. Why? Because the cart without its owner must not run. If we accept God as our King and serve Him with our whole mind, will, and heart, He doesn't need to come with the flood any longer. He will sit in is. If we accept God as our King, we should serve and obey Him. 
  If we accept God as our King and serve Him today, He will throw away the flood, come to us, and become the source of blessing. If we keep the Sabbath day, offer a tithe, live in faith, prayer and praise, evangelize, serve and obey God, and keep His commandments, He will get off the cart of the flood and abide in us. That's why we must not call the Lord only with our lips, but should truly serve Him in our lives. 
  You have come here to worship the Lord. You give your tithe to serve Him. You pray, read His Word, and praise to serve Him. You preach Jesus to serve Him. Although we live in this turbid world, we should observe the commandments to serve God: "You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not bow down to idol gods. You shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God. Keep the Sabbath day holy. Honor your father and your mother. You shall not murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor. You shall not covet your neighbor's house." 
  1 John 3:24 reads, "Those who obey His commands live in Him, and He in them. And this is how we know that He lives in us: We know it by the Spirit He gave us."  If we keep His commands and have His love and joy, He will be glorified. The Bible says, "Because He loves me, I will rescue him.
I will protect him, for he acknowledges my name. I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him. He will call upon me, and I will answer him." If we are changed through the flood, it will turn to the power of God and living water of blessing. If we have faith in God and obey Him, He will change this economic crisis under IMF to the source of living water and a great blessing. If we serve and accept God, the devil of trial and trouble will take off his mask and  be transformed to the angel who gives us great blessings and grace. 
  Psalm 30:11 says, "You turned my wailing into dancing; you removed my sackcloth and clothed me with joy." A man didn't do that, but the Lord is with us so that sorrow may turn into dancing and He removes our sackcloth and clothed us with joy. That's why we should look to the Lord who comes on the flood and we should kneel before Him, be broken, obedient and changed, accepting and serving Him with  empty heart. Then the flood will stop and become our great joy, dancing, blessing, and living water. 
  Thirdly, If God sits in us, He will give us strength and peace. If we recognize God in the flood, He will give us strength. In the Bible, we can see those who were used by God went through the flood. Abraham was called by God at 75, but he experienced the flood of life for twenty five years. At last God blessed him abundantly at 100. The Lord gave him great strength. Isaac suddenly faced the flood of a severe trial and suffering of death but overcame it. After that, God continued to give him grace and blessing. Jacob went through trial and trouble at his uncle's home for twenty years and at the ford of the Jabbok the socket of his hip was wrenched and limping. After then, God blessed him. Joseph served Potiphar as a slave for thirteen years and was falsely charged and imprisoned, but later he became a prime minister of Egypt and rescued his whole family as an instrument of God. Moses intended to save his nation but failed and was exiled and worked as a lonely shepherd for forty years. At 80, when the flood of trial passed away, God used him as a great leader who delivered the Israelites. Only when we go through this flood, we have the power of  obedience. Unless we face the flood, we can't be obedient. 
  Hebrews 5:7-9 says, "During the days of Jesus' life on earth, he offered up prayers and petitions with loud cries and tears to the one who could save Him from death, and He was heard because of His reverent submission. Although He was a Son, He learned obedience from what he suffered and, once made perfect, He became the source of eternal salvation for all who obey Him." Even the Son of God, Jesus Christ learned obedience from what He suffered. Only when we go through the trouble of the flood, we can be broken and obedient to God. We can obey God in any suffering through the experience of the flood. 
  Only through the flood, we can get the power of faith. 
  1 Peter 1:7 tells us, "These have come so that your faith-- of greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by fire -- may be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed."  He who didn't go through the flood can't have strong faith.  He who suffered from dreadful flood and overcame it can have strong faith. He who experienced the flood will not fear any suffering. The scripture says, "Shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword separate us from the love of Christ? In all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us." In any hardship, he who went through the flood can look to the Lord and overcome it. 
  Psalm 119: 49-50 says, "Remember your word to your servant, for  you have given me hope. My comfort in my suffering is this: Your promise preserves my life." He who experienced trouble and overcame it depends on the word of the Lord and never moves in any suffering. Furthermore, he who went through the flood can be thankful to God. He who has no hardship doesn't feel thankful. Those, who experienced poverty and hunger at the Korean War, thank God for every meal. They feel so thankful to God for warm sleeping and comfortable lives. Yet those, who didn't go through poverty and hunger at the Korean War, are not thankful for meal, warm sleeping, and comfortable lives. Only those who faced hardship can truly thank God in their lives. 
  Psalm 119: 71-72 reads, "It was good for me to be afflicted so that I might learn your decrees. The law from your mouth is more precious to me than thousands of pieces of silver and gold." Before we are afflicted, we live on our own. 
  If we face trouble we learn to observe God's law and thank Him. God gives His people peace through this trial.  God only wants this: "Dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well."  The Lord sends the flood and breaks us in order to make us prosper and obey God. This blessing of God can be granted only when we go through trial and suffering. 
  Psalm 84: 5-6 says, "Blessed are those whose strength is in you, who have set their hearts on pilgrimage. As they pass through the Valley of Baca, they make it a place of springs; the autumn rains also cover it with pools."  Only those who went through the valley of tears become the source of springs and overflow with life. Therefore, our Lord makes water of blessing overflow to those who experienced this flood. The final plan of the Lord is that His people live comfortably on this earth and have eternal life with Him in heaven. 
  Jeremiah 29: 11-13 says, "I know the plans I have for you," declares the Lord, "plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart." Hence, all we have to do at the time of flood is to be broken, repent, be changed, empty our hearts and pray to the Lord. If we pray, "Lord, rescue us from the flood and trouble," the Lord will get off the flood and sits enthroned in us. When we serve the Lord as our King and live with Him, He wants to give us strength, peace and blessing.

  We will not fear the awful flood if we know our God sits enthroned over it. For He is a good God.  He wants to give you good things. According to the scripture, "Which of you, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a snake? If you, then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good gifts to those who ask him!" Since our God is such a good One that He gave us His only Son lavishly, the flood God comes with is a good flood. The flood gives us good, but not bad, For God comes by cart of the flood and is the King who controls it. When we repent of our sin and accept God as the Sovereign King and serve Him, the flood will turn into blessing which gives us strength and more peace than before. That's why we should not fear the economic crisis under IMF. That's because it is the cart by which God comes.  If we heartily accept and serve God, this cart will be changed to the source of a great blessing. Therefore, during this period, let us be broken, repent, and be changed, all of us including the government, enterprisers, laborers and nation! 
Let us remove group selfishness and greed, and empty our hearts! When we accept the King our Lord Jesus and rise up with Him, He will raise us and make us the head, not the tail, and be at the top, never at the bottom, and lend to others, but borrow from none. 

(part 6)-prayer-

  Abundant in love and holy our God, Father, You said You sits enthroned over the flood and come to us as the everlasting king at a time of flood. You said You always give us strength and the grace of peace. Now, we face a greate flood personally and nationally. Help us look upon You, who sits enthroned over the flood, and regard the flood a chariot in which You are. Help us know that You send us the flood, accept and thank for that.
  Our Father, help us broken and changed, throw away group egoism and have empty mind so that the Lord may sit enthroned among us, rule over us as our King, and become the spring of grace, love, blessings and strength. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 
