January, 25th, 1998.
Title : I Draw Water for All of Your Camels
Scripture Reading : Genesis 24 : 10-27

(part 1)Today, I would like share God's grace with a message titled, " I Draw Water for All of Your Camels."
There is no one who never goes through trials in his life. When Jesus came back from the Jordan River with the fullness of the Holy Spirit, He was tempted by the devil in the wildness for 40 days. The Bible reads that even the Son of God filled with the Holy Spirit was tempted by the devil. 
  Because trial makes our hidden selves be shown and trains us to be strong in faith. Today's scripture tells us how much grace and blessing we can get through trial. Abraham was old and so much blessed in everything by God that he had plenty of animals, servants, silver and gold with him. He intended to inherit all his possessions to his son Isaac for him to marry. He didn't want his son to marry a woman in Canaan but one, in his homeland, who feared Jehovah. Abraham said to his oldest and  chief servant in his household, "Put your hand under my thigh and swear that you will go to my country and get a wife for my son there. You must not take my son with you. Bring me a virgin from there." So the servant swore an oath and took ten camels and put various kinds of treasure on them and went over the desert and wilderness to the land of Galilee. 
  This story shows us a meaningful model: Abraham symbolizes our heavenly Father; Isaac, Jesus; the servant, the Holy Spirit. God, our Father is looking for a bride for His Son, Jesus Christ. You and I are the brides of Jesus Christ. God, our Father sent the Holy Spirit on this earth to find a bride for His Son, Jesus Christ. 
  According to the Bible, "When the Holy Spirit comes, He will convict the world of guilt in regard to sin and righteousness and judgment."  The Holy Spirit  rebukes the world regarding sin, for our Lord, Jesus Christ, came to this world 2000 years ago and bore all our sins on the cross. He carried away all our sins and shed His blood on the cross. Therefore, we should have been forsaken for our sins, yet if we
come to Jesus, we are forgiven and justified. This is marvelous grace.  The Lord has opened 
a way for us to be saved  not by our works but by faith. However, today people don't receive the salvation made by grace through Jesus Christ. Since they live in sin but reject the forgiveness and salvation of Christ, the Holy Spirit convicts the world of guilt. The Holy Spirit cries out to the people, "If you just dwell in sin, you are doomed to perish, yet if anyone receives the Son of God, Jesus Christ, as Savior, he will be freely forgiven and saved. Repent and accept Him." If we realize, repent and believe in Jesus, we will become His brides. 
  (part 2) And, the Holy Spirit convicted this world of righteousness. Throughout history, there has been no one who revived after they died among the religious, philosophers, heros and protesters. This means that they were all punished in results of their sins. It is only our Lord Jesus Christ who defeated sin and death, arose from the dead and sat enthroned at the right of God. Only Jesus is acknowledged as an eternal righteous one before God. Since Jesus paid for our sin, destroyed death and hell, and now sits at the right hand of God, He is the only righteous Savior for us. (part 3)There are many religions and philosophies, but only Jesus Christ defeated death, dispelled sins, arose from the dead and went up to heaven. Other people couldn't redeemed their sins so remained in hell. Therefore, the Holy Spirit points out that Only Jesus is the unique savior, and only through Jesus Christ, we can boldly go ahead before God.  Then the Holy Spirit convicts the world in regard to judgment. That is, the king of this world has been judged and driven out. Adam and Eve handed the sovereignty of this world over to the devil so he ruled over this world as a king. He tempted people and took them away from God. People are tempted by the devil and they don't think God exists. They're not with God in households, politics, economy, education, culture, military and industry. They don't live with God. This is what the devil has done. However, he was disarmed on the cross when Jesus came. The devil lost his position of a king in this world. The true King is Jesus. The devil has been driven out. The Lord tells us, "The devil went away. Since the king of the world was driven out, you must not fear nor be dismayed at him but drive him away and establish the kingdom of Jesus Christ wherever you go." 
  Likewise, today our Abraham, God, sent His servant, the Holy Spirit, for our bridegroom Isaac, Jesus, and He is looking for lost souls on this earth. So God teaches us clearly the truth on sin, righteousness and judgment through the Holy Spirit and earnestly invites us to be forgiven from sin, accept righteous Christ as Savior, destroy all schemes of the devil and become the people of heaven. You believe in Jesus Christ and come to church today, for the Holy Spirit invited you. You received the revelation of the Holy Spirit. Therefore you recognized Christ and accepted Him as Savior and come to this church worshipping God. 

  Now, in the second story, Abraham's servant walked a long way with ten camels and arrived at Abraham's hometown. He came to the town of Nahor, the brother of Abraham and 
had the camels kneel down near the well of the town and prayed, "O Lord, God of my master Abraham, give me success today, and show kindness to my master Abraham. See, I am standing beside this spring, and the daughters of the townspeople are coming out to draw water. May it be that when I say to a girl, 'Please let down your jar that I may have a drink,' and she says. 'Drink, and I'll water your camels too'---let her be the one you have chosen for your servant Isaac. By this I will know that you have shown kindness to my master." He couldn't look for a girl without any ground. How could he find a girl without the bridegroom, Isaac? He prayed at the well of the town of Nahor, "When the daughters of the townspeople are coming out to draw water, if I say to a girl, 'Please let down your jar that I may have a drink' and she says, 'Drink, and I'll water your camels too' --let her be the one you have chosen for your servant Isaac." 
  To water camels is such a hard work to do. The servant's camels passed through the desert and drank all the water they had so they were all thirsty. It was very hard to water ten camels. After the servant finished praying, a beautiful girl appeared with a jar on her shoulder. In the middle east area, people don't carry jars on their heads but carry them in nets on their shoulders. She came to draw water. The servant said to her, "Please give me a little water."  She lowered the jar and gave him a drink. Then she said, "I'll draw water for your camels too." She was busy drawing water and giving it to a camel after another until she watered all the ten camels. It took long time. She was sweating and her hands were swollen with water all over her body. Yet she watered all the camels without saying a word and the servant was so deeply moved by her that he went over to her and gave her a gold nose ring and gold earrings and asked, "Whose daughter are you? Is there room in your house for us to spend the night?" Likewise the servant found a wife for Isaac. 
  Today the Holy Spirit chooses you and me as Jesus' brides through our watering the camels. The camels are brought by the servant. Today the servant symbolizes the Holy Spirit and He brings us camels and lets us water them. Then what do the camels mean? While we live, we face many trials and hardships. The Holy Spirit brings them. The devil doesn't bring them. The Holy Spirit allowed Jesus to be tempted by the devil. The Holy Spirit brings us camels so that we may be qualified and have faith. 
  I Peter 4:12-13 says, "Dear friends, do not be surprised at the painful trial you are suffering, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed when His glory is revealed." For example, today husbands are like the camels. If your husband doesn't believe in Jesus and gives you troubles, think of him as a camel that the Holy Spirit has brought you. 
  You should water the camel with patience though you are distressed. The Holy Spirit brings the camel to make us  qualified as the true children of God and the brides of Jesus. (part 4) When your husband comes home drunk, crushes household effects, shouts at you, and doesn't go to work, plays cards, this husband is a big camel. The wife is likely to go out and flee away from the husband. However, this camel is brought to you by the Holy Spirit. You are in charge of this camel. You should water the camel. Whenever this camel weeps, you should pray, love, care for him with patience to the point that the camel is full with water. Then, the camel stops weeping and doesn't weep any more.
  Today, there are so many homes in which husbands are camels. When your husband doesn't believe in Jesus Christ and afflicts you, think in this way, 'A camel is weeping. The Holy Spirit brings to me this camel to water. Yes! Because the Holy Spirit brings this camel to me, though it is hard, I will be patient and water this camel.' This camel is brought by the Holy Spirit to test us wether we have qualifications to be children of God and the bride of Jesus Christ or not. 
  In some homes, wives are camels. A wife, whom I know, insisted she would never support her parents-in-law. Whenever the husband went to his parents, the wife fought the husband. If the husband gave his parents any food or money, the wrath of the wife fell upon him. Whenever the husband visited the parents' house, she demanded for divorce. However, the husband was very sincere son and truly loved his parents. So, he was in big trouble and asked me saying, "Should I live with her or not?" Then I answered him, "This is your camel. There is a weeping camel in your room so there is no way of comforting it except watering. Even thought the camel repeatedly weeps, you should love and water it with patience. Then, some time later, it will stop weeping. This camel is brought by the Holy Spirit to test you if you water it or not. Therefore, water it abundantly." After years, he said his wife became better.
  There can be many camels while we live. Children can be camels by not studying, playing with villains, afflicting parents and stealing things in home. If the Holy Spirit commends you to water these camels, a father and a mother should water the camels, crying out and praying and fasting before God saying, " Oh, God, help these camels stop weeping." If you are unwilling to water them, they continue to weep, following you throughout your home. So, you should water them. 
  To some people, supervisors on their jobs are camels. they scare at the mere thought of going to work. Whenever their supervisor comes, he afflicts and gets them in trouble with nonsense. However, you should not hold grudges against him. You should accept him as a camel which is brought to you. Even though he demands you for something strange, you should obey, try to do that and water him. Then, the camel will no longer demand you. Or troubles in our lives may be our camels. Our business may go wrong or we may lose our jobs so that we may think that  we'd better die. However, it is most important for us to water those camels of trials. Then you should cry out to God at the meetings of daybreak prayer and all night prayer, and at the fasting prayer mountain that He may give you strength to overcome the sufferings and open the way for you. You have to water the camels of trials. If you water the camels enough they will be quiet. 
  Some people may have the camels of sickness. They cry out to be watered. Then what should you do? You should be patient and repent and pray without ceasing. Pray and pray and pray to the Lord until the camels are quiet. You should not pray once or twice. You must continue to water them until they are bored at water. 
(part 5) To Korea, a camel such as the IMF crisis approached. The camel comes and crys out for water. Now, politicians, business tycoons, laborers and all Koreans should irrigate the camel of the IMF crisis with savings. As long as we don't water it, this camel will never go away. This camel of the IMF crisis was brought to Korea by the Holy Spirit. We should know a variety of trouble and inflictions are camels led by the Holy Spirit. If we don't water these camels, we lose our positions as the children of God and as the bride of our Issac, Jesus Christ. 
  James 1:2-4 reads, "Consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Perseverance must finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything."  Rebekah watered all the ten camels the servant of Abraham brought and they were full and never cried out for water. They shook their heads when she was going to water them. Until then, Rebekah had hard time. 
  When the Holy Spirit brings us camels and asks us to water them, we should not reject him. We have to accept trials. We should not say, "I don't want to receive it. Why should I suffer?" We should take the cross. Unbelievers say that it is their destiny. We have our own cross. The Holy Spirit brings us camels. The camels for each of us come to us though we drive them out. Therefore, we should open our hearts widely and accept trials without complaining. 
  We should depend on the Lord, be patient and serve Him. If we think of the Lord and pray, we can serve the camels of our husbands, wives, children, supervisors and trials with humility, devotion, and attendance until the camels don't ask us for water. And we should love them. 
  Romans 12:20-21 says, "If your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirty, give him something to drink. In doing this, you will heap burning coals on his head.
Do not be overcome by evil,  but overcome evil with good." Therefore, when your enemy comes to you as a camel and he is hungry, feed him; if he is thirty, drink him; if he persists stubbornly,  understand him. Think that God has brought you a camel and you should try to water him without grumbling and continue to pray. 
  James 5:13 says, "Is anyone of you in trouble? He should pray. Is anyone happy? Let him sing songs of praise." After we water the camels of suffering, something great will happen to us. What did the camels bring with them? They brought various kinds of treasure. Genesis 24:10 says, "Then the servant took ten of his master's camels and left, taking with him all kinds of good things from his master. He set out for Aram Naharaim and made his way to the town of Nahor." The camels carried all kinds of good things and after Rebekah watered all the camels, the servant gave her all the treasure: nose rings, earrings, foot rings and silver dresses, and he shared them with her family, too. After we water all the camels, the trials and trouble will bring us great blessings. 
  Today camels of trials must bring God's treasure. If we finish standing the trouble and trials, they will bring much greater blessings than them. 
  Take Abraham for an example. He faced hardships for such a long time. But after the time, God blessed him abundantly and made him the greatest father of faith. Isaac was also tested but he obeyed God so he no longer had trials in his lifetime but had only blessings. Jacob also went through hardships watering camels for 22 years but after then God blessed him so that 12 tribes came from his twelve children. Joseph lived as a servant and was imprisoned for 13 years, but after he watered the camels of trials, the camels made him a prime minister of Egypt. Moses watered the camels of trouble in the wilderness for 40 years but at 80 he became a great leader who delivered 3 million Israelites from Egypt and let them walk over the Red Sea and gave them freedom and liberty. 
  After Rebekah finished watering the camels, she received treasure and also her family received it. Today Korean churches are eager to water the camels the Holy Spirit brought with sincerity, God will bless not only us and churches but also our nation and country.  (part 6)If Korean churches defeat the IMF crisis, God's blessings spread throughout Korea. 
  Deuteronomy 28:12-14 says, " The Lord will open the heavens, the storehouse of his bounty, to send rain on your land in season and to bless all the work of your hands. You will lend to many nations but will borrow from none. The Lord will make you the hean, not the tail. If you pay attention to the commends of the Lord your God that I give you this day and carefully follow them, you will always be at the top, never at the bottom. Do not turn aside from any of the commends I give you today, to the right or to the left, following other gods and serving them."
  Thus, if we serve, water this camel of the IMF crisis and be patient, God will pour out the IMF-borne tremendous blessings to our people. Test and hardship never come meaninglessly. After being watered, they unload treasures which they carry on.  That's why it is foolish to hide ourselves from trials and trouble, complain, grieve, and be discouraged. If the camels cry out, consider that great treasure will come to us. Though you suffer outwardly, you should rejoice in your heart.  Whoever may be the camels: your husbands, wives, children, supervisors and lives, you should be happy. They cry for water and you hate them and suffer from them for a while, but God will bring great treasure behind them. After the Holy Spirit tests you through the camels if you are qualified as true children of God and brides of Christ, God will pour His tremendous blessings on you. 
  After Rebekah was chosen as Isaac's wife, how did she go through the desert to meet her husband? She rode the camels she watered. She rode the best camel of ten and were escorted by Abraham's servant and his men to go to her husband. When do you and I go to heaven? We face trials and hardships so often in this world, yet they will be the camels you will ride to go to heaven. Through trials and trouble, we will be broken, changed by repenting and have faith that we may go toward heaven with that faith. When we ride faith toward heaven, the Holy Spirit guides us and the angels guard us so that we may go through the wilderness of this world and arrive at our Isaac, Jesus who is waiting for us. 

  That's why we should not  complain different kinds of trials and sufferings, but accept them. No one enjoys trials and trouble. However, without them, we can't be broken, changed by repenting, to become the people of good faith. The more the camels of trials come, the more gifts they will bring to us. If we meet the camels at the well and water them enough through words, the power of the Holy Spirit and prayer that they may be quiet, they will take down all the gifts of God to you. We will go to heaven with faith we get through the camels. When Rebekah watered the camels of the servant Abraham sent, she was too much suffering, but she must have shouted for great joy when she received treasure the camels carried and when she was went to Isaac on the camel, she must have overflown with expectation, joy and hope in her heart. When trials and trouble come to us, we are sad, distressed and afflicted, but we should pray, be patient, serve them, devote yourselves and make efforts. Give them drinks over and over again. If they cry, give them drinks again and again. They seem to drink forever, but the time to end will come Why? Since the Holy Spirit brought them, they will stop crying when the time of God comes. After trials and trouble are over, they will bring us great blessings so that all may go well in good health and overflowing lives as our souls are getting along well. 

  (part 7) Remain silent and take a look at. Now, the whole of our nation suffers from the IMF crisis. But, If only we water that camel, unbelievable blessings will come upon Korea. To politicians, economists, laborers and all Koreans, something good is going to happen to, if we water that camel for two or three years to come. When this camel disburdens various treasures, Korea will receive really big blessings and have a marvelous chance to become the world's best people. Therefore, we should take present hardship our chins. Even though our bodies are covered with water, our hands are swollen and our shoulder hurt, we should draw water for all camels, read the Scripture, drink the well water of prayer and be filled with the Holy Spirit. Then, victory will be ours.

   -prayer-
  Abundant in love, our Father God, while we live in this world, Your Holy Spirit brings small or big camels to us. Small camels carry small gifts ;big carry big. Father Lord, help us not expel camels, which approach us, and water them. If we earnestly water the camels and satisfy their demands, the trouble will pass and following blessings come to us. Help us know this and with the faith, which we got through the trouble, help us go to the heavenly kingdom.  Our father, help us boast about having trouble rather than boast about having not. Help us be glad to have trouble, for suffering produces perseverance; perseverance, character; character, hope. To have better tomorrow than today; the next month than a running month; the next year than this year is because we go through suffering. Therefore, help all of our saints become those who water camels. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
