Sunday, June 21 1998
Title : O Worm Jacob
Scripture Reading : Isa 41:14-16

   (part 1)Today, I would like to deliver a message titled, "O Worm Jacob".
  I saw long earthworms moving on the yard after a long rainy season when I was young. Earthworms have nothing beautiful. They are ugliest of all the worms. They have no weapons to attack or defend themselves. They have no eyes, ears, teeth, or claws. They don't have strong teeth, feet and scales to flee. I have often seen the earthworm be the prey of a rooster or a bird in an instant. Why did God compare Jacob to an earthworm among countless worms? Did Jacob really become a worm? The Lord said that if man became a worm He would be willing to help.
  (part 2)Thus, I want to see the process that cunning Jacob became like an worm.

  First, Jacob was never born an earthworm. He was rather like a cunning and clever lizard. Jacob fought with his older brother, Esau, in the womb of his mother, Rebekah. When he came out, he grasped his brother's heel. So he was named Jacob, which means he deceives.
  Genesis 25:22-26 says, "The babies jostled each other within her, and she said, 'Why is this happening to me?' So she went to inquire of the Lord. The Lord said to her, 'Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from within you will be separated; one people will be stronger than the other, and the older will serve the younger.' When the time came for her to give birth, there were twin boys in her womb. The first to come out was red, and his whole body was like a hairy garment; so they named him Esau. After this, his brother came out, with his hand grasping Esau's heel; so he was named Jacob." Jacob fought with his older brother, Esau, in his mother's womb and held his brother's heel when he came out. This Jacob was not a powerless worm at all. In their boyhood, Esau enjoyed hunting outside and Jacob liked helping his mother with cooking and washing the clothes at home. (part 3) One day when Jacob was cooking some stew, Esau came in from the open country, famished. He said to Jacob, "Quick, let me have some of that red stew." Jacob replied smiling, "You are my elder brother. First sell me my birthright and I will give you this." It is nothing to give some stew his brother, but Jacob did not so. He was cunning. On the other, Esau was so stupid and goon that he said, " I am about to die. What good is the birthright to me? I will give my birthright to you." Jacob received the birthright I the name of God and gave Esau some red stew. Esau ate the stew and went out. His behavior was wrong in the sight of God. Because Esau despised his birthright, so he sold the right for just a cup of stew. However, Jacob definitely wanted to have Esau's birthright, for he wanted to have God of Abraham, God of Isaac and to be firstborn deserved to receive God's blessings.

The father was old and intended to bless his children before he died. In Israel, the father's blessing was like the God's blessing. The father called for his older son, Esau, and said to him, "I am old and my eyes and ears are so weak that I might die soon. Go out and hunt some wild games and prepare tasty food for me and bring it to me to eat, so that I may give you my blessing." (part 4) Blessings go out of person's mouth when he or she is happy. So, Isaac said he would bless Esau after eating some tasty food and being happy. Rebekah heard that. She loved Jacob more than Esau because Jacob was always helping her with everything. As soon as Esau went out for hunting, she said to Jacob, "My son, go out to the flock and bring me a goat so I can prepare some tasty food for your father. Then take it to your father to eat, so that he may give you his blessings." Jacob said, "But my brother is a hairy man and I am a man with smooth skin. What if my father curses me instead of blessing me?" Then Rebekah said, "My son, let the curse fall on me. Just do what I say." The mother took the best clothes of Esau and put them on Jacob. She also covered his neck and hands with goatskins. She handed to Jacob the tasty food she made so he could gave it to his father. Jacob said, "My father, here is the food you like." The father  asked, "Are you my son, Esau? How did you find it so quickly?" Jacob answered, "God helped me so that I could prepare it quickly." The father said, "Come near me." He smelled and touched Jacob and said, "It is strange. The voice is the voice of Jacob It smells like Esau and his hands are hairy so he must be Esau!" Then he began to bless Jacob. 
  Right after Jacob had received blessings from his father and left him, Esau came in from hunting and said, "Father, I prepared tasty food for you." Then the father was surprised and said, "Just before Esau came and I blessed him. Who are you?" Esau said, "Father, my brother wore my clothes and covered his neck and hands with goatskins and took my blessings. Please bless me!" Although he cried aloud, there was any blessing left for him because his father had already blessed Jacob in the name of the Lord. That's why Esau was going to kill Jacob. He said, "I will kill you after my father dies.. Then Rebekah sent Jacob to his uncle, telling him, "Flee at once to my brother, laban and stay there until your brother's fury subsides. Then I will send word for you to come back." Yet Jacob didn't return home before his mother died. 
  While Jacob lived with his uncle for 20 years, he quarreled with him many times. He deceived his uncle and was deceived by him in a lot of trial. Over 40, Jacob secretly fled with his family and flocks because his uncle wouldn't let him go.
  Genesis 31:21-24 reads, "He fled with all he had, and crossing the River, he headed for the hill country of Gilead. On the third day Laban was told that Jacob had fled. Taking his relatives with him, he pursued Jacob for seven days and caught up with him in the hill country of Gilead. Then God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream at night and said to him, "Be careful not to say anything to Jacob, either good or bad." There was an argument  between Jacob and Laban. Jacob said, "This was my situation: The heat consumed me in the daytime and the cold at night, and sleep fled from my eyes. It was like for the twenty years I was in your household. I worked for you fourteen years for your two daughters and six years for your flocks, and you changed my wages ten times." Like this he departed his uncle.
  Therefore, Jacob was not a worm at all. He was so cunning. He tried to fulfill only his own desire with every effort and means. But let us see the process of his change.

  Secondly, let us see his trial and the experience that he was changed to an earthworm. When he was going to cross the River Jabbok with his family and flocks and servants, he  heard that his older brother, Esau, was running to him with 400 men to kill him. When he heard that, he was discouraged and terrified. He couldn't run away for his uncle wanted to kill  him if he came back. In front of him, his older brother is going to attack him with 400 men. He won't defeat his older brother, Esau. During the night he let his whole family cross over the river and he was left alone and sat down himself. That's because if his older brother comes to kill him, his brother will kill his flocks and family first, then he will flee. In that case it is better for him to flee at this side of the river. Jacob is still cunning. He thinks to himself, "I must survive though my whole family dies. I can have new family if I marry again. So I don't have to die together." He is such a coldhearted man. 
  Then all of a sudden, a man appeared and grasped him and said, "You, terrible guy! How can you let your whole family cross the river and you stay here alone to survive. You have to cross, too. Whether you live or die, you must go with them." Then Jacob said, "I can't go. I must survive. If my older brother doesn't kill my family, then I will go. But if he kills my family, I have to flee." During the night, the tall man pushed Jacob to go and Jacob struggled not to go. Likewise there was a wrestling at the sand. From the early evening through the night the wrestling was going on, for Jacob insisted on not crossing the river. He said, "Though I lose all my whole family and flocks, I must be alive and I won't go." At dawn the angel touched the socket of Jacob's hip so that his hip was wrenched and he fell down. He was trying to get up but fell again. He was limping. Then he was disappointed. For he couldn't run away. Because he was lame, he couldn't flee though his brother comes to kill. He lost all his hope. Therefore he became a worm. He said to himself, "I am like an earthworm so I can't see and hear and have no teeth, fingernail, toenail and feet to run. I am a completely abandoned worm." Then he caught the angel tightly and said, "Unless you bless me, I won't let you go. Please bless me. If not, I will not let you go." The angel asked him, "What is your name?" He answered, "Jacob." Then the angel said, "Your name will no longer be Jacob, but Israel, for you have struggled with God and have overcome." Jacob asked, "Who are you? What's your name?" The angel said, "Why do you ask my name?" It was the messenger of Jehovah that Jacob wrestled with all night, that is, Jesus Christ. Jacob could recognize Jesus Christ, the messenger of Jehovah when he became a worm.
(part 5) When he was healthy and able, he did not realize who it was to wrestle with him. But, after he became like an earthworm, his eyes were opened and recognized that the man was the Son of God, Jesus Christ.

  Thirdly, let us see the relationship between God and the earthworm. What if we become a worm? Before we become a worm, we live on the basis of human- centered life: selfishness, self- boasting, and stubbornness, but if we become a worm, we lose all those human-centered lives. When we become a worm, we thoroughly repent of our human-centered lives by weeping. If we become a worm, we can fully rely on God and strongly pray to Him. When we are alive, we depend on us. But when we are broken and become a worm, we can count on God and cry out to Him as Jacob grasped the angel when he became a worm. God loves the one who becomes a worm. 
  (part 6) a prayer of a man who became like an earthworm is written in Psalm 25:16-20, " Turn to me and gracious to me, for I'm lonely and afflicted. the troubles of my heart have multiplied; free me from my anguish. Look upon my affliction and my distress and take away all my sins. See how my enemies have increased and how fiercely they hate me! Guard my life and rescue me; let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you."
  Likewise, those who become like an earthworm have hearts searching earnestly for God. Then how will God treat those who become like an earthworm? God really loves those people. Because people depend on their own wisdom, knowledge, intelligence, understanding, and ability when they were not a worm. They put God behind. Even believers think of God as accessories and if they need  they call and usually put Him aside and live wayward lives. Yet if they become a worm  and are totally broken, they earnestly seek and depend on  God, So He loves those people and He is happy to accepts them.
  Isaiah 41:14 states, "Do not be afraid, O worm Jacob, O little Israel, for I myself will help you,' declares the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel." Here when Jacob became a worm, God said, "Do not be afraid. I will help. I will redeem you." When people are too proud and live wayward lives, they don't need God. Though God comes to help them, they don't let God do that. But when they became a worm and are broken and seek God, He embraces them and says, "Do not be afraid, O worm Jacob, O little Israel, for I myself will help you. From now on you will not help you, but I myself will. Your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel, the Holy God of Israel. Now I will fight, care, and work for you." (part 7) When we become like earthworm, God says He will make us into threshing sledges. How can an earthworm turn into a threshing sledge? God says when we become like earthworm and count on only Him, the prayer of earthworm will be like an threshing sledge with sharp teeth.
  Isaiah 41:15-16 states, "See, I will make you into a threshing sledge, new and sharp, with many teeth, You will thresh mountains and crush them, and reduce the hills to chaff. You will winnow them, the wind will pick them up, and a gale will blow them away. But you will rejoice in the Lord and glory in the Holy One of Israel." 
  Zechariah 4:6-7 says, " So he said to me, --'Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit',--'What are you, O might mountain? Before Zerubbabel you will become level ground.--"
  This means even though a man who becomes like an earthworm has no eyes, nose, ears and teeth, when he prays to God for help, his prayer will be like a sharp-edged threshing sledge so that it will crush a hill or a big mountain to chaff. God says He will let a man who has his teeth chew his problem with his own-teeth and make his teeth broken, while make an worm person whose prayer has strong power an able man.
  And a man who becomes like an earthworm finds no pleasure in himself. He does not boast of his ability and power. He delights only in God and is proud of God. 
  It is whitten in Psalm 28:7-9," The Lord is my strength and my shield: my heart trusts in Him, and I'm helped. My heart leaps for joy and I will give thanks to Him in song. The Lord is the strength of His people, a fortress of salvation for His anointed one. Save your people and bless your inheritance; be their shepherd and carry them forever."
  How was he when Jacob became like an earthworm? He became a cripple. His hair was disheveled and his body was scratched. But when the sun arose, he appeared before his wives and children. They were taken aback seeing his appearance. Yet more surprisingly he hugged his wives and children and said, "Let's live long together." and advance shobblingly toward 400 men of Esau. Then he was like an earthworm. He had no arms and power to offend and defend. If trampled, he han no way of surviving. however, he was different from as he had been. He depended on God and became Israel. The winner against God means a man who succumbs to God. because he totally yielded to God and depended on His power and authority, heavenly army and angels proceeded with him. 
  In the distance, Esau also advanced toward Jacob. Esau looked at Jacob who had betrayed him 20 years ago and han been a thorn in his throat. In his eyes, Jacob looked so pity. At Jacob's feature, his grudge against Jacob melted away. So he downed from his horse, run to meet Jacob and said, "Twenty years ago, you turned your back on me and run away. Did you do so to become like this?" Esau and Jacob hugged each other, wept and reconciliated. As a result,  four hundred men who came to kill Jacob rather became soldiers to guard Jacob and his family. As such, God changed Jacob's fortune.
  Today, Korea is in trouble such as IMF crisis. Korea is just the same as Jacob at Jabbok. Now korea is struggling to solve problems with man's ability and methods. In this procedure, Korea goes limp. By financial restructuring, many banks were declared bankrupt and merged into a large one. By company restructuring, many firms shut the doors, making great many unemployed. Korean economy and Korean people ars staggering. It is the high time when we sought the Lord. Right now, we must repent our behavior and our haughty attitude which we took when Korean economy was in full bloom. We should pray saying, "Our God, don't leave us. Please guard us. Unless you bless us, we won't let you go." When we pray and cry out God for help, He will make Korea Israel, as He made Jacob into Israel, and make us an threshing sledge so that we may crush hills and big mountains to chaff.
Before we face trouble, we are stiff-necked as Jacob was. But after we undergo little or big trouble, we realize how we are powerless and incapable. And then, from that time, we seek Almighty God, rely on Him and start the second new life in faith. When we are like 'Jacob', we can't recognize God's face, but when we become like an earthworm, we discriminate God's face.  
Only those who became a worm can live and work with God and get His blessings and power. 
  Therefore, do not think of all the trials and troubles as strange things. For those things make us a worm like Jacob. When you become a worm which can't do anything for yourselves, the Lord will tell you, "I will take charge of you. You O worm, I will help you. I will be with you. I will rescue you. I will fight for you." Therefore, let us not be afraid of various kinds of troubles. Let us be broken through them. When our pride, arrogance,  boasting and obstinacy are broken,  then we can raise up our hands to the Lord and confess, "Lord! Come, I'm here. If you abandon me, where should I go?" May you repent by weeping and turn to the Lord! 

  (part 8)-prayer-
  Holy and glorious our father God, when our ego lives,  we say, "We can do !". That is because we are filled with cunning schemes and arrogance. So God is not with us. But when we are broken, repent and become like an earthworm, God helps us and make our prayer an threshing sledge with sharp teeth so that we dispell troubles and glorify You. We thank for this. 
  The Lord our father, Korea is now in big trouble as Jacob at Jabbok. Help us become like earthworm in these difficulties. Help us be broken, repent, come before You with both arms thrown in the air, cry out and depend on You. Please let us live as Israel, not Jacob. Let us rely on You and live by Your power. In the name of Jesus we pray, Amen. 
