March 19th. 1998.
Title : The Realm After Death
Scripture Reading : 1Corinthians 15:50-58

  (part 1)I would like to share God's grace with the message titled, "The Realm After Death."
Death is like a long and dark tunnel. When people look at a long and dark tunnel of death, they can't see the exit and they are desperate. Therefore the atheists say that we will enter into the realm of nothing and our lives will disappear forever through death. The agnostics say that they are not sure whether there is life after death or not. The existentialists insist that they can say life only at this present time and it isn't necessary to say the realm beyond death. However, religions say the realm after death in various ways. Then what does the Bible say about the realm after death? 
 
  First, let us see about man and life after death in the Old Testament. The Genesis states, "Man is made in the image of God." And the Bible says, "God is Spirit, and His worshipers must worship in spirit and in truth." Since man was created in the likeness of God, he was made in spirit by nature. The spirit now dwells in our body to help our souls. Because man has spirit, he can have a fellowship and conversation with God. There is no record that an animal had a fellowship with God or it established a temple, cathedral, and church. For the animal had no spirit and it can't have spiritual talk and desire. Though corrupt man was driven out from God, he misses the spiritual fellowship so there are religions where people live. All the people have their own religions from Africa to Alaska. That's because people have spirit in them and they desire to have fellowships with spirit so they made religions. Since spirit never dies, man will not perish in heaven or hell. The Bible clearly proves that in the Old Testament. Enoch who was the descendant of Adam walked with God for 300 years and was taken to heaven without dying. 
  Genesis 5:22-24 says, "After he became the father of Methuselah, Enoch walked with God 300 years and had other sons and daughters. Altogether, Enoch lived 365 years. Enoch walked with God; then he was no more, because God took him away." He lived both in the material realm and the spiritual realm, and finally stayed in the spiritual realm and was not seen. If man is just material being, why did Enoch walk with God and was he taken to heaven without dying? Because man's spirit never dies so God did it. The Bible says that Elijah was taken to heaven, too. "In the sight of Elisha, suddenly a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared and separated the two of them, and Elijah went up to heaven in a whirlwind. Elisha saw this and cried out, 'My father! My father!' The Chariots and horsemen of Israel!' Then Elisha took the cloak that had fallen from Elijah and struck the water of Jordan with it. The water was divided. Likewise, Elijah was taken to heaven by a chariot of fire without dying. Unless man is spiritual and supposed to live forever, why did God take Elijah to heaven by a chariot of fire?  Since man is both substantial and spiritual, he is created by God to stay in both realms. Therefore, God, the Spirit can have fellowship with man, the spiritual being, and God is immortal, so is man, for he is spiritual. In this way, it is proved that if necessary God can take man to spiritual and eternal realm disregarding death. 

  Secondly, let us see about the realm after death in the New Testament. Jesus who was a perfect God came as a perfect man and lived on this earth for 33 years and died on the cross and rose and ascended to heaven on the third day after buried. While Jesus lived on this earth, He quickened the dead. Therefore, Jesus didn't only prove that He was the Son of God, but also that man dies when his spirit and body are separated, but he can be alive when his spirit returns. While Jesus was doing His ministry, the daughter of Jewish synagogue ruler named Jairus died. The synagogue ruler pleaded with Jesus to put His hands on his daughter and Jesus went to Jairus home and quickened his daughter. 
  Luke 8:53-56 says, "They laughed at Him, knowing that she was dead. But He took her by the hand and said, 'My child, get up!' Her spirit returned, and at once she stood up. Then Jesus told them to give her something to eat. her parents were astonished, but he ordered them not to tell anyone what had happened."  Here Jesus clearly says, "My child, get up!" And her spirit returned. Therefore, when her spirit left her for heaven, she died, but when the King of heaven, Jesus said, "Come back," her spirit returned and she was quickened. Likewise, to die means that spirit leaves its body, and if the spirit returns, man is quickened. Therefore the spirit dwells in man's body. Though the spirit leaves the body, the spirit doesn't disappear, for the spirit never dies but is everlasting. In the Bible, Jesus quickened the son of a widow in town called Nain. 
  Like 7:11-16 states, "Soon afterward, Jesus went to a town called Nain, and His disciples and a large crowd went along with Him. As He approached the town gate, a dead person was being carried out the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And a large crowd from the town were with her. When the Lord saw her, His heart went out to her and He said, 'Don't cry.'  Then He went up and touched the coffin, and those carrying it stood still. He said, 'Young man, I say to you, get up!' The dead man sat up and began to talk. The son of a widow in a town called Nain had been dead for a few days. He was being carried to be buried and his mother followed, crying and many neighbors were there, too. Jesus had pity on the widow and stopped the coffin and said to the dead man, "Young man, get up!" At once his spirit returned and he sat up and talked to his mother and people there. This story shows us that man is not only substantial being, but also he can be alive only if his spirit returns. The most dramatic event is shown in the resurrection of Lazarus. Lazarus had been dead for four days and smelled terrible in the tomb. So his sisters, Martha and Maria strongly rejected to move the stone of the tomb. Yet Jesus ordered them to move the stone and stood at the tomb and called in a loud voice, "Lazarus, come our!" Then he came out with his body wrapped with strips of linen. Jesus said, "Take off the grave clothes and let him go." Lazarus was quickened!  His body was rotten in the grave. He could never be alive medically. However, when Jesus called in the spirit, the rotten body was quickened immediately. Man is not just a substantial being, but if the spirit comes in he lives and if the spirit leaves he dies. Then who are we? We are physical beings in which the spirit dwells. The Bible tells us that our true beings are spiritual not physical. While Jesus was traveling to Jerusalem, He went up to the mountain of transformation with Peter, James, and John. When He was praying on the mountain, His clothes became dazzling white. Then Moses and Elijah appeared and prophesied that Jesus would be crucified at Jerusalem. When Peter heard that, he was amazed and said, "Lord, it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters -- one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah." Then a cloud appeared and enveloped them, and a voice came from the cloud: "This is my son, whom I love. Listen to Him!" Suddenly, when they looked around, they no longer saw anyone with them except Jesus. 
  This story was written in detail in Mark 9:2-5: "After six days Jesus took Peter, James and John with Him and led them up a high mountain, where they were all alone. There he was transfigured before them. His clothes became dazzling white, whiter than anyone in the world could bleach them. And there appeared before them Elijah and Moses, who were talking with Jesus. Peter said to Jesus, "Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters -- one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah." Moses and Elijah showed up on the mountain of transformation. As you know, Moses was buried on the other side of the Jordan River on the way to Canaan with the Israelites 1400 years before Jesus came. Moses surely died 1400 years before and was buried at Pisgah and his spirit left. Elijah went up to heaven without dying 850 years before Jesus came. Then when Jesus was praying at the mountain of transformation, there appeared Moses who represented law and Elijah who represented prophecy and prophesied that Jesus would die in Jerusalem and on the third day He would rise. There we can see that Moses who died and whose spirit went up to heaven, and Elijah who went up to heaven without dying, both appeared in spirit and told Jesus. Therefore, we should understand that the spirit is the same in the body or out of the body. The one out of his body and the one in the body are transfigured to spirit. Our bodies are not important but the spirits in them are important. Therefore, Moses who died 1400 years before and Elijah who went up by a chariot of fire 840 years before appeared and reported to Jesus. Here it is surely shown that man will not disappear by dying but his spirit will be eternal though his body disappeared. Take a look at the death and resurrection of Jesus. He was born and grew up like us for 33 years. When Jesus was crucified there were two robbers on His right and left sides. The one on His right side said to Jesus, "Please, remember me when you come again."  Then what did He say? He said, "Today you will be with me in paradise." Though Jesus was crucified, He said to the robber, "Today you will be with me in paradise." Then did His body go to paradise? No. What went to paradise? Jesus' Spirit and the robber's went to paradise. Jesus said, "You will be with me today." He didn't say that we would disappear by dying and that our future wouldn't be sure. Jesus clearly said to the robber that he would be with Him in paradise. As a matter of fact, Jesus' body was buried in the tomb and the robber's leg was cut and buried. Though their bodies died like that, their spirits went to paradise. Jesus demonstrated that physical body was transfigured to spiritual body through resurrection. It is sure that Jesus died and His spirit return to His body and rose as a spiritual body. His body didn't remain in the tomb. He died and rose on behalf of us. He shows us that our lives will not finish by dying. 
  1 Corinthians 15:44-45 reads, "It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. So it is written: 'The first man Adam became a living being'; the last Adam, a life-giving spirit." If we accept the last Adam, Jesus Christ as our Savior, He is a life-giving Spirit. Though our natural bodies disappear, our spiritual bodies will not go away. Yet when the natural body disappears, the spiritual body will be alive. Therefore, if we die in our natural bodies, we will be risen in spiritual bodies and we will be with Jesus forever. That's why death itself won't remove us. 

  Thirdly, let us see about the realm after death in the times of apostles. The apostles became bold when they realized by Jesus' continuous appearing after His resurrection that people would live forever after death. They were certainly convinced that they would live forever after dying for the Lord. They touched the body of resurrected Jesus and ate with Him and listened to Him. Since they clearly realized that Jesus was risen by seeing, hearing and touching Him, they surely knew that they would live forever spiritually though they died physically. By the way, Jesus' disciple, Peter also quickened the dead. When he went to Joppa, his disciple named Tabitha died. Since she always did good, many people called in Peter from Joppa and asked him to quicken her. So Peter prayed alone to God and said, "Tabetha, get up!" Then she was risen at once. As Jesus quickened the dead, so did Peter. When Peter told her to get up, her spirit returned and she was risen. And it is written that the apostle Paul quickened the dead one. Paul was preaching the gospel at Troas from the Sunday morning to the next daybreak. Eutychus seated in a window sinking into a deep sleep fell to the ground and died. I sometimes see some people sleeping while I am preaching, then I think that's because I didn't pray enough. But when I heard that while the great apostle, Paul was preaching, someone sleeping, I was comforted, for he was sleeping not because of the preacher. While the great apostle Paul anointed by God was preaching, Eutychus was sleeping seated in a window on the third floor and fell to the ground and died. The people there were alarmed and Paul went down and prayed and raised him and the man was risen. Here we can see that when the apostles earnestly prayed God called in the spirit for the dead one. The apostle Paul had the dramatic experience. It is written in the Bible that
Paul was stoned while preaching the gospel at Lystra. The enemies confirmed his death and threw him into the place where dead bodies were. Then while his disciples were discussing and praying for what they should do with the dead body, Paul was risen. Thirteen years later Paul wrote about that in 2 Corinthians 12:1-4, "I must go on boasting. Although there is nothing to be gained, I will go on to visions and revelations from the Lord. I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether it was in the body or out of the body I do not know-- God knows. And I know that this man-- whether in the body or apart from the body I do not know, but God knows-- was caught up to paradise. He heard inexpressible things, things that man is not permitted to tell." Through death 14 years before, He saw such a tremendous scene in the paradise. He said that he didn't know that experience in the body or out of the body. People think that if they die, we would be in the air like a cloud. But listen to Paul. He said twice he didn't know at all that he was in the body or out of the body. He went to paradise and clearly saw the paradise and its glory. He didn't know but God knew that he was in the body or out of the body. That means he didn't know that he went to the paradise with his body or with his spirit. We think that if we die we wouldn't know anything: the world and our relatives. But it is wrong. Death is a continual realm from this world and a more beautiful and glorious place. After Paul experienced death, he always missed heaven. 
  Philippians 1:21-23 says, "For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain. If I am to go on living in the body, this will mean fruitful labor for me. Yet what shall I choose? I do not know! I am torn between the two: I desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far." He said, "it is better to depart and be with Christ."He rather missed death.
  2 Corinthians 5:1 says, "Now we know that if the earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God, an eternal house in heaven, not built by human hands." Therefore he said, "Though our earthly tents are destroyed, we will not disappeared, but we will have eternal houses in heaven, not built by human hands. (part 2)2Colinthians 5 : 8-9 says, "We are confident, I say, and would prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord. So we make it our goal to please him, wether we are at home in the body or away from it." Paul said that it was better for us to be away from the body and be with Jesus when we were confident so that we may serve Jesus. Peter also said in his old age that the time was coming for him to leave his body in accordance with God's will.
  2 Peter 1 : 12-14 states, "So I will always remind you of these things even though you know them and are firmly established in the truth you now have. I think it is right to refresh your memory as long as I live in the tent of this body, because I know that I will soon put it aside, as our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me."
Peter expressed his coming death in such a way. What is 'the tent of this body'? That means the houses in which we live. He said the time was coming for him to leave the house where he had lived. He didn't say he would disappear in this world. He said the time was approaching when he departed from the tent of the body after having lived there according to word of God. 
   Take a look at apostle John's experience as well. In the persecution of the Rome's 10th emperor, John was arrested and sent to Potmos island. When he prayed on a Sabbath there, he saw an amazing vision from God. 
  It is written in Revelation 4 : 1-6, "After this I looked, and there before me was a door standing open in heaven. And the vice I had first heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, 'Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this."At once I was in the Spirit, and there before me was a throne in heaven with someone sitting on it. And the one who sat there had the appearance of jasper and carnelian. A rainbow resembling an emerald, encircled the throne. Surrounding the throne were twenty-four other thrones, and seated on them were twenty-four elders. They were dressed n in white and had crowns of gold on their heads. From the throne came flashes of lighting, rumblings and peals of thunder. Before the throne, seven lamps were blazing. There were the seven spirits of God. Also before the throne there was what look like a sea of glass, clear as crystal. In the center, around the throne, were living creatures, and they were covered with eyes, in front and in back."
  John ascended to heaven. Through the door standing open, he was lifted up and saw God and the twenty-four elders seated on the thrones. Of the twenty-four elders, the twelve represented the old testament and others the new testament. He saw the saved men in the era of the old and the new testament seated on the thrones, dressed in white and had the gold crowns on their heads. Through this, he realized clearly the fact that people didn't disappear, but went up to heaven after death. 
  Jesus said in John 14:1-3, " Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God; trust also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, I would have told you. I am going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am." Jesus said if each one of us dies, He would come and bring us to the permanent and prepared place. Therefore, we are believed to be valued beings, not like worms that die and then turn into soil. When our bodily tents are crushed, the Lord will guide us to eternal realm, where there is no tear, anxiety, sigh, separation, mourning and ailing.
  The devil lies that human beings eventually end up with death. When we depart from this body, some will go to paradise like Nazarus, other will go into the hell like the rich man who disowned Jesus in this world. 
  Hebrews 9: 27 says, "Just as man is destined to die once, and after that to face judgement." However, those who believe in Jesus, are moved from death to life and can enter into heaven with forgiveness and righteousness, for Jesus Christ was judged on behalf of us on the cross. Hence, do not let yourselves be seduced with the lies by atheists, agnostics and existentialist claiming that man will disappear after death.  We will leave our physical bodies sooner or later and dwell with our Lord in the eternal heaven. If the Lord comes before then, we will be changed to strong from weak; to glorious from ungodly; to spiritual from natural. We will live with the Lord forever. Since we are spiritual, we will either live with God in heaven forever or suffer against God in hell forever. We won't be between the two, nor will we avoid that. 
  (part 3)It is said that those who are cowards, non-believers, murderers, adulterers and liars, will be all thrown into blazing furnaces, this will be second death. What could be more wretched than the death of both flesh and soul? Hence, we should pray earnestly to the Lord to give us His grace so that we may lay hold of the Lord's salvation and secure the eternal life. 

  -Prayer-
  Almighty and holy our Father. Job questioned wether a man could be raised from death. But we clearly know a man can be resurrected and live forever on account of Jesus' dying for us and being resurrected. We thank You for this. Father in heaven, now we are seated in this church, but, over time we will leave this flesh and world one by one. Help us all believe in You and rely on You, so we could meet one another again in heaven. We pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
