February 8th.1998
Title : The Faith in Our Daily Life
Scripture Reading : Hebrews 11:1 - 6

  Today, I would like to deliver a message titled,"The Faith in Our Daily Life."
When India was under the colony of England, the British government donated a car to a rich man in a province. Yet some time later the rich man was found that he made two cows draw the car and enjoyed traveling inside the car. In fact, the car has more power than tens of cows. Since the rich man was not aware of that, he made the cow draw the car. Today the faith the Lord has given us has power to move a mountain. Yet we don't know how to use faith in our daily lives. Therefore, we do not allow the great power of faith to lead us but we make every effort to draw faith by ourselves. Now, we are suffering heavy troubles such as the IMF crisis. It is high time that we lived depending on the power of faith God gave to us. What shall we do to use faith? Let us find the answer for that through the word of God. 

  First, the Bible says that faith is being sure of what we hope for. We try to believe but if we are not sure of what we hope for, we can never have faith. Many people don't obtain good results though they struggle. For in their hearts they are not sure of what they hope for. If a man runs fast in track, but without a goal, he can't win the prize even though he runs fast. When I was young, there was entrance examinations for primary school. I took an exam before a Japanese teacher, and then went out to a playground to race with others. At that time, I was confident in running. A Japanese teacher led me to the scratch and said something in Japanese. I couldn't understand what he said. So I misunderstood his intend and started to run toward my home. I ran as fast as possible. But, my father called me from behind and said to me, "Come back!" When I got back to the school, others already came to the scratch after coming full circle. It is needless to say that I came at the end. I narrowly escaped failing the examination. No matter how fast you run, if you miss a goal, it is of no use. To study without any plan and goal is vague, and to waste time and effort. In my technical high school days, a boy who was sitting by me  always read novels during class. When I visited his home, his father was very proud of him. His father was uneducated but he had hope for his son and expected him to study hard but the son just read novels. He studied without aim. His father expected a lot from him, yet it was in vain. It is the same in business. Working hard without goal is useless. Many years ago when I drove a car with the late Dr. Jimmerman(?) in Springfeild, Missouri, A man was riding a bicycle laden with packs. Dr. Jimmerman said, "That man is one of persons who work hard in my town. He works hard day and night, but it is so hard for him to earn money. Because he is doing business without any goal." If we are to make use of faith in our lives, we must have clear goal. For faith needs hope. Then how can we have goal of faith? God helps us make a goal in our lives by giving fervent desire in our hearts.
  Philippians 2:13 says, "For it is God who works in you to will and to act according to His good purpose." When we earnestly pray to God, He gives us a fervent dream: He continues to give us desires in our hearts. Through these desires, we can make goals and directions for
our lives. Though we make any goals, they must not be greed or avarice.
  James 4:3 reads, "When you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures." Our goal must please God always. That's why faith starts when we make a clear goal. When the Israelites left Egypt for Canaan flowing with milk and honey, the pillar of cloud and fire clearly guided them. Today the Holy Spirit is in those who believe in Jesus. He makes us exact goals in our lives. That's why God shows us goals when we empty our hearts, wait before the Lord and earnestly ask Him. When we lose our jobs, have honorary retirement or bankruptcy, what should we do? We should make a new goal. We must not give up. Then who makes our new goal? It is God who makes our new goal. For God provides things for you and me. 
  1 Corinthians 2:9 says, "As it is written: 'No eye has seen, no ear has heard, no mind has 
conceived what God has prepared for those who love him." God has prepared everything for you and me. If we earnestly pray and wait for the way God prepared, He makes us a clear goal by giving a fervent desire or a open door. We should make goals for our businesses and lives. We have to run for the goal God shows us. The Bible says that those who are led by the Holy Spirit are the sons of God. That means the sons of God have the right to be led by
the Holy Spirit. Pray that the Holy Spirit may lead you. If you earnestly pray, God is sure to show you the way He prepared for you. Then we should trust the goal. 
  Hebrews 11:6 reads, "Without faith it is impossible to please God, because anyone who  comes to Him must believe that He exists and that He rewards those who earnestly seek Him." God must reward those who seek Him. He grants them grace and blessings. Therefore we should begin our faith with a clear goal. 

  Secondly, our faith works by having hope. The Bible says, "God calls things that are not as if they were." Then we have to see things that are not as if they were. It is very important to see them in our hearts. It is very important in our lives to reflect in our hearts what God prepared. As you know, when Abraham came up to Canaan from Egypt, he was not poor, hungry and famished. God gave him a lot of gold and silver and many animals. Yet he always quarreled with his nephew Lot because they lived in a small land together. After he was separated with his nephew, God called Abraham and let him stand on a high place and said, "Lift up your eyes from where you are and look north and south, east and west. All the land that you see I will give to you and your offspring forever." Until that time, the Canaan land didn't belong to Abraham. The Canaanites occupied the land and lived there. However, God, who calls things that are not as if they were, told Abraham to look north and south, east and west, that is, God told him to look the land that didn't belong to him as if it had done. Since God calls things that are not as if they were, we should look things that are not as if they were in order to work with God. 
  We should also have them in our hearts, thinking that is mine. Abraham had no child over 85, 10 years after he returned to Canaan.  One evening when he asked for a child, God called him out and let him look up at the stars in the sky and said, "Count the number of the stars." Abraham counted the stars. Then God told him, "Stop counting them. Your offsprings will be as numerous as the stars in the sky. Why did God wake up Abraham at night and made him count the stars? That's because it is very important to look in faith. Abraham had a dream that his descendants would be as numerous as the stars in the sky by looking at and counting them. After then, when Abraham became 85 and his wife, 75, they forgot them who couldn't have a child physically, and they entered into the dream and vision. They could look at themselves as the parents of numerous children and believe that. The Bible says that Abraham saw and believed that. That is the rule of looking. That means if we look at something in our hearts day and night, the Spirit of God works through that dream. 
  Today why is the cross before the pulpit in the church? Why does every church have the cross on its roof? It has the rule of looking. What does the cross mean? It shows us that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was crucified and shed blood for us 2000 years ago. We look at the cross meaningfully. Whenever we look at the cross, we should recall a historic incident on the cross. We should remember that our sins were judged by Jesus' suffering on the cross and  we were set free from sin. Whenever we look at the cross, we should acknowledge that our sins were forgiven through Jesus Christ and we were reconciled to God and had communication with Him and the Spirit of God is in us and we are in God. Whenever we look at the cross, we should believe and see that  Jesus took up our infirmities and carried our sicknesses and sorrows so that He granted us healing. On the cross, Jesus bore all our curse and removed thorns and thistles and judged all our poverty. 
  We should remember 2 Corinthians 8:9, "You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, so that you through His poverty might become rich." And the Bible says, "Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written: Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree." By looking at the cross We should remember that Jesus redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus. When we look at the cross, we should be totally changed. We should imagine that our old selves died on the cross  and became new ones. When we look at the cross, we should not see ourselves who died and were going to hell but Christ who destroyed death and hell and brought heaven and eternal life. The Bible says, "Anyone who is in Christ is a new creation. Behold!  The old has gone and the new has come." That means by looking at the cross we should accept  ourselves as new in our hearts. That's why we set up a high tower with a cross on it on  the church and the cross behind the pulpit in the church. It tells us the rule of looking. We always look at it and should think of ourselves as someone in our hearts. That's why we should always see in our hearts that our dreams and goals have been fulfilled as if Jacob put spotted trees before animals and always had the dream that the animals would bear spotted ones and confessed that with his mouth. So plain color of sheep and goats all bore spotted ones. This story is written in the Bible. That is the rule of looking. Therefore, we should always see that our goals have been fulfilled in our hearts. All of our nation should not consider fail and despair as ours under IMF but imagine that our country is new, healthy, orderly, rich and strong. In this darkness, we have to look at shiny hope. The individual and nation who use this rule of looking rightly, will be prosperous. What does the Bible say? It says, "People who have no dream will perish." This rule of looking means that we always have dreams in our hearts. God makes His Spirit work through those who use the rule of looking. The Bible says, "If the Holy Spirit comes on this earth, He will give the youth visions and the old dreams." That is the rule of looking. Visions are not real and dreams are not, either. Yet, the Holy Spirit will let the dreams and visions appear in reality by the rule of looking. Therefore, those who have no dreams and visions will not bring creative lives in the future. 
  
  Thirdly, now we must have faith in our hearts. People may say, "Lord, give me faith." But we'd rather thank Him for faith God has given us. We were born with ears, eyes, mouth and nose. We must not ask God for them. They are already given. If we use them well, we can be more healthy. When we were born, God gave us faith. When we believed in Jesus and were born again, God  gave us faith.
   Romans 12:3 says, "By the grace given me I say to every one of you: Do not think of yourself more highly than you ought, but rather think of yourself with sober judgment, in accordance with the measure of faith God has given you." We have faith in accordance with the measure God has given us. Those who use the faith more will grow up in their faith. Unless we use faith, the faith will shrink. Likewise, there is no one who has no faith.  Since you have faith in your hearts, you should make up your mind to believe. If you decide not to believe, you can't believe. Jesus always said to those who received grace, "Your faith saved you, your faith healed you and your faith blessed you." For we already have faith in us. If we had no faith in us, why did He blame us for unbelief, doubt and little faith? That's because we didn't decide to believe, in our hearts. What we decide to believe depends on our choice. We have faith, so it is either way to choose to believe or not. Though we do not see, hear or touch anything, we must follow faith if we choose and decide to believe. 
  James 1:6-8 reads, "When he asks, he must believe and not doubt, because he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind. That man should not think he will receive anything from the Lord; he is a double-minded man, unstable in all he does." Since God has given us faith in our hearts, we have to choose to believe. Even in any difficult situation, we must decide to believe. Then we must not waver. We should also be patient. At times we are discouraged. Then we have to read the word and pray and listen to those who have strong faith. If we are more patient, we will have the result of faith. Yet unless we are patient, we will be depressed. I've read a story in a book: A man discovered a gold mine in America and invested all his money for a machine and dug deeper and deeper but he didn't find any gold. Gold must be there, yet it wasn't found. He was exhausted so he couldn't  stand. He sold his mining machines and the gold mine. He who bought them found gold after he dug less than 10 meters. The one who started that first had been a little more patient for 10 meters, he would have found gold. He gave up just before success. It is the same to faith. If we trusted a little more, God would work. We are most exhausted and weary just before we get to our goal. As it is darkest just before the sun rises in the morning, so we are most  discouraged just before we get to the goal of our faith. At that time we need the one who encourages us. Pastors, elders, senior deaconesses, deacons, brothers and sisters can encourage us saying, "Take heart, do not be discouraged, try once more." If they encourage us like this, we can keep our faith. Therefore, those who believe by themselves are afflicted. We'd better have faith with two or three together. If one falls, another one can raise him; if he is depressed, he can be encouraged by the other. If we encourage one another, we can have results. 
  Romans 10:17 says, "Consequently, faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word of Christ." When we are weak in faith, we should listen to the word. 
  2 Corinthians 5:7 tells us, "We live by faith, not by sight." When we see the difficult situation and feel discouraged and waver, we must be encouraged in our faith. 
  Hebrews 10:38 says, "My righteous one will live by faith. And if he shrinks back, I will not be pleased with him." Once we believe, we must keep marching with faith and we must not give up nor shrink back. With this patience, we should confess our faith with our mouth.
  According to Mark 11:22-24, "Have faith in God," Jesus answered. "I tell you the truth, if anyone says to this mountain, 'Go, throw yourself into the sea,' and does not doubt in his heart but believes that what he says will happen, it will be done for him. Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours."
After we believe, we can say to this mountain, "God, throw yourself into the sea." We should declare our faith. Then God worked for that. God told Abraham just to look at the stars, didn't He? Later when Abraham became 99, God changed his name, "Confess your dream. Your name will be no longer Abram, but Abraham which means the father of many nations; your wife will be no more called Sara, but Sarah which means the mother of many nations." So they confessed their dreams every day as if they came true. The Bible says, "It is with your heart that you believe and are justified, and it is with your mouth that you confess and are saved." Since Abraham and Sarah confessed their faith every day, they got a son named Isaac. Therefore we should confess positive faith with strength and boldness. In order to put our faith into practice, we must have these three steps. We should make a big or  little goal, look at it, pray and believe. And then we should  have hope without ceasing. We should see that our dreams come true in the morning, afternoon and evening. The sick should imagine that he is healed. The one who begins a business have to imagine that his business is  going well with him. The one, who wants his family member to be saved, should imagine that the member is saved and goes to church. He who would like to succeed should see his  success in his heart all the time. Considering the rule of looking, we have to choose faith. And then we should believe, though we don't see, hear and touch. We should always keep  faith. We should always believe. Then we must thank God and pray to the Lord with these  three things, "Heavenly Father, listen to me, for I have a clear goal and believe by using the rule of looking. Please do miracles as I believed. If you carry it out, you can  use in your lives faith God  has given you. Above all, you should practice your faith by looking at the cross whenever you pray and imagine what Jesus did for you. Through the rule of looking, the Holy Spirit will work so that all may continue to go well with  you in good health as your soul is getting along well and overflow with Him. The Lord says, "If you can?  Everything is possible for him who believes." Jesus said in the Bible, "You have great faith!  Your request is granted." Only through faith  God works for us.  

   -pray-

  Abundant in love and holy God, our Father. We fix our eyes on Jesus Christ, the author and perfecter of our faith. We thank You for calling us, allowing us to believe in Jesus, and opening the way in which we can live with You. Our Father! Help us have either big or small goal in accordance with the guide of the Holy Spirit. Help us dream that our visions come true, and be patient, proclaim boldly and pray hard to You. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
