October 11th.1998.
Title : Haman and Mordecai
Scripture Reading : Esther 7:1 - 10

(part 1)I would like deliver a message titled, "Haman and Mordecai."
The people of God are His possession. If anyone does harm to His people, he has to do harm to God first. 
  John 10:29 says, "My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all; no one can snatch them out of my Father's hand." Today's scripture reading tells us that Haman, a man of influence, in Persia where the Jews were living as captives, intended to destroy the people of God, Mordecai and the Jews, but Haman was rather destroyed. This story is as follows: 

  The Persian King, Xerxes, was so powerful that he extended his territory from Egypt to India and made his palace the most beautiful in the world. In order to display his vast wealth and splendor, he gave a banquet for all his nobles, officials and leaders for six months. For the six months of banquet, royal food and wine was so abundant. When these months were over, the king gave a banquet, lasting seven days. On the seventh day, when the king was in high spirits from wine, he commanded his eunuchs to bring before him Queen Vashti in order to display her beauty to the people and nobles. But when the attendants delivered the king's command, Queen Vashti refused to come. Then the King Xerxes became furious and burned with anger and he said, "How does she dare to reject the king's command?" Then his attendant proposed that the Queen be driven out from the royal palace, if not the king's command would not be accepted by the people of his country. As a result, Queen Vashti was dismissed and some time later the king got married again. By the providence of God, Esther, who was the cousin sister of Mordecai one of the Jewish captives in Babylonia and had been raised by him because her parents had passed away, was recommended and the king was attracted to Esther more than to any of the other women. So he set a royal crown on her head and made her queen. 
  God already knew that there would a severe trial come to the Jew and He prepared for that in advance. By the providence of God, Queen Vashti was dismissed and instead, Esther, the Jew, was appointed. As a result, her cousin brother, Mordecai, got to work as an official sitting at the king's gate. 
  During the time Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate, two of the king's officers who guarded the doorway, conspired to assassinate King Xerxes. But Mordecai found out about the plot and told Queen Esther, who in turn reported it to the king. when the report was investigated and found to be true, the two officials were hanged on a gallows. All this was recorded in the book of the annals. 
  After these events, the king honored Haman more than all the other nobles and elevated him to prime minister. Haman was highly honored by the king and had ten sons and great wealth and exploit. The king commanded all the people to kneel down and pay honor to Haman. But Mordecai would not kneel down or pay him honor. He said, "I only worship God our Lord not man." Then the royal officials asked Mordecai, "Why do you disobey the king's command? Something terrible must happen to you.  Please kneel down to Haman next time." Yet Mordecai refused to comply. Therefore they told Haman about it and that Mordecai was a Jew. When Haman was told of it, he was enraged. In fact, Haman was a descendant of the Amalekites. The Amalekites and the Jews had been enemies to each other. Therefore, Haman thought that he'd rather destroy all the Jews as well as Mordecai throughout the whole Persian kingdom. He gathered his men and set the date to kill the Jews.                                           
  After that, he said to the king, "There is a certain people who does not obey the king's laws but their own law and worship their God. They will do harm more than good. If they live on this land, our people might follow them and do harm to this kingdom. So we'd better destroy them. If you let me do, I will totally destroy this terrible nation in this kingdom of Persia. Since the king honored and trusted Haman, he took his signet ring from his finger and gave it to Haman and said to him, "Do with the people as you please." So dispatches were sent by couriers to all the king's provinces with the order to destroy, kill and annihilate all the Jews on a single day. When the Jews learned of that, they wept and wailed. Many lay in sackcloth and ashes. When Mordecai heard of that, he tore his clothes and he was kneeling in sackcloth, wailing loudly and bitterly around the king's gate. When Queen Esther, his cousin sister, was told of it, she sent new clothes for him to put on instead of his sackcloth. Then Mordecai gave Esther a message that Haman would destroy all the Jews and she should plead with the king to rescue her people. And there came a message from Esther: "If I approach the king without being summoned, I must be put to death. And thirty days have  passed since I was called to go to the king. If I go to him now, I must be killed." Then Mordecai sent back his answer: "Do you think that because you are in  the king's house you alone of all the Jews will escape? If you are known as a Jew, you will also be killed. Unless you beg the king for your people at this time, deliverance for the Jews will arise from another place, but you and your father's family will perish. Then Esther sent this reply to Mordecai: "I will fast for three days and cry out to the Lord so please go and gather together all the Jews in Susa and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day." After that Esther and her maids fasted for three day and so did all the Jews. On the third day, Esther made up her mind, "If I perish, I perish," and she made up herself and put on her royal robes and walked into the inner court of the palace without being called by the king. (part 2)That was no more than the way to death. Although Esther was the king's wife, the law decreed her death if she approached the king without permission. Only when the king intended to save queen Esther, and held out his scepter, she could avoid death. Then, Esther bravely appeared before the king without being called. How nervous she must have been! She must have been sweating. Her very life and the life of her people were on her shoulders.  How gorgeous she was in her royal robes with such a shining face like the sun light! The king was so pleased to see her in a month and held out to her the gold scepter. So Esther approached and took the scepter and she was safe. The king asked, "What is your request, Queen Esther? Even up to half the kingdom, it will be given you." The king was so attracted by his wife that he said he would give half the kingdom to her. Esther replied, "If it pleases the king, let the king, together with Haman, come today to a banquet I have prepared for him." The king said, "It's not difficult. Bring Haman at once so that we may do what Esther asks." To the banquet the king came with Haman, who became so proud. For Queen Esther invited the king and him only, except all the other nobles and officials. The king and Haman were treated so well and the king asked again, "Now what is your petition, Queen Esther? Even up to half the kingdom, it will be granted." Esther replied, "If you come to this banquet tomorrow again, I will tell you my request. Please come with Haman together!" The king said yes to her. Haman was so excited when he got out because he was invited with the king by Queen Esther and asked to come again the next day. When he was on his way back home, all the people knelt down but Mordecai. He was enraged and told his wife, Zeresh, about him. Then she said, "Prime minister, why are you afraid of him? Have a gallows built, fifty cubits high, and ask the king in the morning to have Mordecai hanged on it. Then go with the king to the dinner and be happy." At dawn, he entered the king's palace in a hurry to be allowed to kill Mordecai. During the night the king could not sleep, so he ordered the book of the chronicles to be brought in and read to him. It was found recorded there that Mordecai had exposed two of the king's officers who had conspired to assassinate the king. The king asked, "What honor and recognition has Mordecai received for this?" "Nothing has been done for him." his attendants answered." The king said, "Who is in the court?" Now Haman had just entered the court to speak to the king about hanging Mordecai on the fifty cubits of gallows he erected for him. His attendants answered, "Haman is standing in the court." The king ordered, "Bring him in." Then the king asked Haman, "What should be done for the man the king delights to honor?" Now Haman thought to himself, "Who is there that the king would rather honor than me?" So he answered, "For the man the king delights to honor, have them robe him with a royal garment the king has worn and place a royal crest on his head and lead him on a horse the king has ridden, through the city streets, proclaiming before him, 'This is what is done for the man the king delights to honor!' "Haman was so excited, for he thought that it would be himself that the king intended to honor. He imagined that he would be in the glorious situation, wearing the royal robe and crest and being proclaimed, "This is what is done for the man the king delights to honor!" He imagined that his wife and children would be so proud of him. At that time the king commanded Haman, "Go at once and do as you have suggested for Mordecai the Jew, who stands at the king's gate." Haman was surprised, saying, "You mean Mordecai?" The king said, "Yes, get the robe and the horse and do just as you have suggested for Mordecai and lead him on my horse through the city streets, proclaiming before him, 'This is what is done for the man the king delights to honor!' (part 3)My beloved saints! Don't play games with God, for you can never win. Esther and the Jews fasted and prayed three days and nights, so God was already involved in this case. Once God is involved, into each of the traps which the enemy makes to catch God's people, the enemy himself will be fallen and trapped. Who is wiser than God? Who can dare to stand up to God? "Haman was sure that he would have Mordecai hanged on a fifty cubits of gallows. On the contrary, he placed the royal crest on the head of Mordecai and robed him with the king's garment and led him on the royal horse through the city streets, proclaiming before him, "This is what is done for the man the king delights to honor!" Haman got hoarse and felt pain on his legs. He returned to the palace and let Mordecai down from the horse and got back home with his face covered in grief. Then his wife asked him why and he told her what had happened to him. He said, "What a shame it is!" His wife said to him, "If You have knelt down before Mordecai, the Jew, that is, before God, you will surely come to ruin!" Then the  king's eunuchs arrived and Haman changed his clothes and hurried to the banquet. Yet he was distressed and couldn't enjoy himself there. But the king was so excited that he asked, "Queen Esther, what is your petition? Even up to half the kingdom, it will be granted." Then Esther answered, "If I have found favor with you, O king, and if it pleases your majesty, grant me my life and spare my people. For I and my people have been sold for destruction and slaughter and annihilation. If we had merely been sold as slaves, I would have kept quiet. The plot has been made to destroy me and my people. Please spare us!" The king was shocked and he asked, "Where is the man who has dared to do such a thing? Who is he?" Esther said, "The enemy is this vile Haman!" The king got up in a rage and went out into the palace garden. By the way, in the old ages in the Middle East area, people used to recline to dine. Esther was reclining at the couch, on which Haman was falling to beg her for his life. He looked like he was going to violate her. Then the king exclaimed, "Will he even molest the queen while she is with me in the house?" Right away, they covered Haman's face. That means he must be killed. Then one of eunuchs attending the king, said, "A gallows fifty cubits high stands by Haman's house. He had it made for Mordecai, who spoke up to help the king." The king commanded, "Hang him on it!" So they hanged him on the gallows in the sight of his family. But Mordecai was designated to a prime minister. Since Esther and Mordecai worked for their people, all of a sudden all the Jews turned to life from death; hope from despair; and joy from sorrow. This story tells a tremendous lesson to those who have faith in Jesus. Because the Jews made a covenant with God through bodies while we have become the children of  God by His Son, Jesus Christ, whose body was torn and who shed His blood on the cross. The people in the old testament were God's people by flesh. However, we not were born of  man but of God and became His own children. Though the enemy conspired to have God's children hanged on a gallows fifty cubits high like Haman, as long as we place faith in the Lord and pray, we will never be overwhelmed by the devil. Since God is with us, the devil will rather be destroyed by his plot. Today so many enemies like Haman are going to destroy the people of God. Yet, only if we pray like Esther, our enemy like Haman will be surely trapped in the snare he had made. No plot of the devil can surpass the wisdom of God. Everyone who is against God must be defeated like Haman. 
  We read in Romans 8:31-32, "What, then, shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare His Own Son, but gave Him up for us all -- how will he not also, along with Him, graciously give us all things?" If we accept Jesus the Son of God as our Savior on this earth, it means that we are born as God's own children. Then the Holy Spirit of God is in us and our names are written in the book of life in heaven. Therefore we are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, and a people belonging to God. Who can dare to resist these people of God? If we heartily serve Jesus Christ and love God, He will care for us day and night and the blood of Christ will cover us and the heavenly host and angels will protect us. We can have strong and firm faith in Christ on this earth and enter heaven. Therefore, my beloved saints, since God preknows you and has prepared a way out from the devil when he comes to steal, kill, and destroy you. If the Holy Spirit makes you pray earnestly, all the schemes of the devil will be removed. Though the devil conspired to crucify the Son of God, Jesus Christ, so that the kingdom of heaven might not be done on this earth and the people might not be saved, as a result of Jesus' death on the cross, God defeated the devil and abolished his authorities and powers disarmed him through the cross. Since the devil crucified Jesus, he himself was destroyed. (part 4)God's wisdom is beyond that of the devil's. The devil thought his kingdom would prosper only when Jesus Christ was crucified. Yet, in contrast, through Jesus' death, the kingdom of the devil was destroyed and the kingdom of God was accomplished on earth. By Jesus Christ's pierced body and blood comes to us the kingdom of forgiveness and righteousness, fullness of the Holy Spirit and holiness, cure and health, blessing and prosperity, heaven and eternal life.  In Jesus, darkness turns to light; chaos to order; death to life; destruction to life; poverty to richness. Christ comes into us with the power of God and brings out great changes to us. Even though the devil always wants to steal, kill, and destroy us, the Lord is stronger than him so that He may change his plots to praise God and all may go well with us in good health, as we get along well with our soul. 
  Please, do not forget this scripture in Psalm 23,  "The Lord prepares a table before me in the presence of my enemies. He anointed my head with oil; my cup overflows." If the enemies come to us, the Lord prepares a marvelous table before us in the presence of them so that we may enjoy everything and be anointed with the Holy Spirit to be stronger than them and that our cup may overflow. That's why we can rejoice unless the enemies come and we can be more joyful if they come, for God will prepare a table for us to resist them. In all things God works for the good of those who love Him, who have been called according to His purpose. Therefore, you should always rejoice, pray continually and give thanks in any circumstance. May you be positive, active, creative and productive with dreams!

 (part 5)
-prayer-
  Holy and glorious Father, God! Your children now come together before You to worship. We ask You in the name of Jesus, please heal the diseases of Your children. That is Your wish and will. Please, place Your hand on us and heal our disease in body and mind. Please, destroy all evil things and root out the source of disease. Let our pains disappear, and healing and health approach us. 
  Our Father! Give ear to the supplications of Your children and held responsible for our anxiety and worry. Help us not worry about what to eat, what to drink and what to put on. Give us jobs and let Your grace and Abraham's blessings stay on us. Please, remove us of all thorns and thistles of curse, and fill us Jesus Christ's grace. 
Fill us with good things and allow our wishes to come true. Father, fill us with the Holy Spirit. Help our hearts overflow with God's grace and peace. We pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
