1998.05.31
저희가 다 성령의 충만함을 받고
All of Them Were Filled with
the Holy Spirit(98.5.31)

The crucifixion of  Jesus was an  unbearable shock and 
despair to  His disciples.  They had  anticipated Him  to 
restore their nation  Israel as  the Messiah,  to establish 
the Messianic  kingdom and  to  deliver them  from the 
oppression of Rome. That  is why they  abandoned their 
families, homes  and jobs   and followed Him   for more 
than three years.  They had  never imagined that Jesus 
would be  captured so  powerlessly, to  be sentenced  to 
death  by  Pilate,   and to   be  crucified.   Jesus  was 
resurrected from death on the third day and for the next 
40 days He appeared  here and there  like lightning and 
disappeared like fog.  Therefore, the  disciples could not 
have any assurance but despaired more deeply.
On the fortieth day of His resurrection, Jesus was taken 
up to heaven  on the  Mt. Olive while  500 people  were 
watching. The disciples felt empty in their hearts.  They 
came back  to Jerusalem  and gathered  together in  the 
upper room.  They locked  the door for they  feared the 
Jews and   devoted themselves  to  prayer.   Ten days 
passed and there came the Day of Pentecost.
Acts 2:1-4 says, "When the day of Pentecost came, they 
were all together in  one place.  Suddenly  a sound like 
the blowing of  a violent  wind came  from heaven  and 
filled the whole  house where they  were sitting.  They 
saw what seemed  to be tongues  of fire that  separated 
and came to rest  on each of  them.  All of them  were 
filled with the Holy Spirit  and began to speak  in other 
tongues as the  Spirit enabled  them."  As soon  as the 
Holy Spirit  descended upon  them, there  arose a  great 
change in the hearts of the disciples.  An  undescribably 
new work began in their  hearts. Before the Holy  Spirit 
came, they  were nothing  and worthless,   being full of 
despair and  frustration.  The  moment the  Holy Spirit 
came, however, they were completely changed.

First, when the  Holy Spirit  came, they began  to have 
revolutionary revelations  about Jesus.    They came to 
realize that the death of Jesus was not an accident or a 
failure.  They  had thought  that Jesus  failed and  was 
martyred. However,  the Holy  Spirit came  and allowed 
them to  know the  wonderful revelation  of  God. They 
came to   realize that  His death   was preordained  and 
planned by God and that His death was not an accident 
or a failure.
Acts 2:22-24 says, "Men  of Israel, listen  to this: Jesus 
of Nazareth was  a man  accredited by  God to you  by 
miracles, wonders and signs, which God did  among you 
through Him, as you yourselves  know.  This man was 
handed   over  to   you  by   God's  set   purpose  and 
foreknowledge; and you,  with the help  of wicked  men, 
put Him to death by nailing Him to  the cross. But God 
raised Him from the dead,  freeing Him from the  agony 
of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its 
hold on Him."
As   soon  as   Peter  received   the   Holy  Spirit,   he 
understood that  Jesus was  handed over  by God's  set 
purpose and foreknowledge. He came  to realize that the 
death of Jesus was not  an accident but God's  plan--in 
accordance with His will.  He also  came to realize that 
His death  was  the completion   of the  Old Testament 
sacrifices.  When  people   committed sins   in  the  Old 
Testament days, they brought a sin offering to God. For 
the atonement of their  sins of breaking  God's law and 
rebelling against God, they used to bring an  animal and 
kill it as a  sin offering.  It  symbolizes that Jesus was 
killed as  the sin  offering on  behalf of  all  the human 
race.  His death was neither meaningless nor accidental.  
He took all the sins of man and was killed for our sins, 
becoming the sin offering.
Peter came to realize  all of these  and the fact  that all 
the sins   of man   were forgiven  and  all  were  made 
righteous  through  Him.   Jesus was   sacrificed  as   a 
transgression offering, too. A transgression offering was 
brought  for  the   forgiveness of   sins  among  people.    
People are apt  to fight and  cause material damages  to 
one another.  Such sins could be forgiven by bringing a 
transgression offering.  The Bible  says that  Jesus was 
sacrificed as a transgression offering.  He was  crucified 
to bring atonement of sins among people.
Jesus was sacrificed as a  burnt offering, too.  A  burnt 
offering was given  to God  as a  symbol of  dedication. 
The Israelites   brought the  burnt  offering  to God   to 
show their dedication  to God.  Jesus became  the burnt 
offering in   order to  dedicate  us  to God.   Jesus also 
became  the  peace  offering.   A  peace  offering  was 
brought in  order to  break the  wall between  God  and 
people and to bring people to God as His children.
1 John  2:2 says,  "He is  the atoning  sacrifice for  our 
sins, and not only for ours  but also for the sins  of the 
whole world."   We can  see  that  His death   was not 
meaningless.   He   was killed   as   the sin   offering, 
transgression offering, burnt offering and peace  offering.  
The disciples realized that  His death was priceless  and 
that,  without  His  death,  they  could  not  have  been 
forgiven or could not have stood before God.  They felt 
it to the bone that His blood sacrifice brought  them the 
salvation by faith.
Acts 2:37-40  says, "When  the people  heard this,  they 
were cut to the  heart and said  to Peter and  the other 
apostles, 'Brothers,  what  shall we   do?' Peter replied, 
'Repent and be baptized, every one of you,  in the name 
of Jesus Christ  for the  forgiveness of  your sins.  And 
you will   receive the   gift of  the  Holy  Spirit.   The 
promise is for  you and  your children  and for all  who 
are far off -- for all whom the Lord our God will call.'   
With  many  other  words   he warned   them; and   he 
pleaded with them,  'Save yourselves  from this  corrupt 
generation.'" Whoever  believes  in Jesus,   therefore, no 
matter how  sinful,  unrighteous, ugly   or worthless  he 
may be, when he  trusts the blood of  Jesus, he will be 
forgiven,  made  righteous  and   born again   as God's 
child--free of   charge. The   disciples came   to realize 
these facts when the Spirit came.

Second, the disciples received wonderful revelations from 
God as  soon as  the  Holy Spirit  came. They   thought 
they were  hopeless and  worthless, being  forsaken and 
frustrated.  The moment the Holy Spirit came, however, 
they had different views  about themselves in  the Lord.  
They  realized   that  they   were  forgiven  and   made 
righteous by meeting and believing in Jesus.
Acts 10:43  says, "All   the prophets testify   about Him 
that everyone who believes in  Him receives forgiveness 
of  sins  through  His  name."  The  disciples  came  to 
understand  that   they were   not  forsaken   but were 
forgiven and  made righteous   by God by   believing in 
Jesus.  They realized that the  moment they believed in 
Jesus, they received  righteousness as  a gift  from God 
and could  stand before   God, which their  good  works 
could never bring.
Not only that,  the moment  the Holy Spirit  came, they 
came to realize that they were reconciled to  God in His 
household by the blood of Jesus and  that they could be 
filled with the Spirit.
Galatians 4:6 says, "Because you are sons, God sent the 
Spirit of His  Son into our  hearts, the Spirit  who calls 
out, 'Abba,  Father.'"  The  disciples had  thought  that 
they had nothing to  do with God  but realized that,  by 
the precious blood of  Jesus, the wall  between God and 
them were   broken, that   God received   them as   His 
children by sending the  Spirit and sealing them  by the 
Spirit, and  that God  became their  Father. They  could 
call God, "Abba, Father."  Since the Holy Spirit 
has come to  us and  sealed us, we  also can  call God, 
"Abba, Father."  Can we call God  Father if we are not 
born of Him? Because we are born of God, we call Him 
Father.  He who has not  accepted Jesus as his  Savior, 
never calls God Father.  In fact, he cannot.
When the Holy  Spirit came,  the disciples  also realized 
that they were delivered from the  devil and the pain of 
diseases  since  Jesus   destroyed the   power  and   the 
authority of   the devil   by His  crucifixion.  The  Lord 
revealed this to  them.  They  didn't have to  be under 
the control  of the  devil.   They were  freed from   the 
devil who tried to steal, kill, destroy, accuse and convict 
them and who drove them into ugliness and filth.
Jesus took all the infirmities and diseases when  he was 
crucified in  order to  heal  man from  various diseases. 
They received this wonderful  revelation that they  were 
freed from diseases  since He  paid the price  of sin  by 
His crucifixion. They realized  that they were no  longer 
the slaves of sin, the devil, diseases or pain.
The moment the Holy  Spirit came, He let  the disciples 
know that they were freed from curses  by the death of 
Jesus on the cross.  Ever since Adam  and Eve rebelled 
against God   and thus  were expelled   from Eden,  the 
ground was  cursed  and produced  thorns  and thistles.    
Man had to sweat to make a living and lived in toil and 
pain. The  disciples now  realized that  they were  freed 
from this curse through Christ. Christ redeemed us from 
the curse of the law by becoming a curse  for us, for it 
is written: "Cursed is everyone who is hung on  a tree."  
They came  to know  that He  redeemed  man in  order 
that the blessing given  to Abraham might come  to the 
entiles through Christ Jesus.  They became bold,  strong 
and positive, having the confidence that they  would live 
in  God's   grace, prosperity   and  blessings   given to 
Abraham.
The Holy Spirit helped  them understand that  the death 
and the resurrection of Jesus delivered them  from death 
and hell and  brought heaven  and eternal  life to  them.  
As soon as the disciples received the Holy  Spirit in the 
upper room on the Day  of Pentecost, they realized who 
they were in Christ.
It is  written  in 2   Corinthians 5:17,  "if anyone   is in 
Christ, he is a new creation; the old  has gone, the new 
has come!" They used  to be the slaves  of sin and the 
devil.  They used to be forsaken by God.  They used to 
be  cursed,  poor,  naked  and  famished.   They  were 
doomed to despair and die.  When the Holy Spirit came, 
however, they  came to   realize that they   were saved, 
forgiven and   made righteous;   that they   became the 
children of God; that  they were healed;  that they were 
delivered from curses in God's  blessings; and that they 
became the citizens of the heavenly  kingdom. They had 
new images of themselves.  They  were amazed by the 
fact that they were completely changed.

Third, when  the Holy   Spirit came, they   realized that 
they were not  ordinary people  any more.   They were 
not ordinary fishermen, tax  collectors or social outcasts 
any longer.  They had  a commission from God.   They 
realized that   they became   God's partners  instead  of 
ordinary  fishermen,  tax  collectors  or  social  outcasts. 
What was their  task? It is  God's commission to  them 
to establish the kingdom of God.
The Lord said,  "Repent, for  the kingdom of  heaven is 
near."  They realized that they were given a  great task 
to proclaim and establish the heavenly  kingdom.  God's 
fervent desire is to establish His kingdom on earth.  He 
tried to build His kingdom  in Eden but the  rebellion of 
Adam and   Eve shattered  God's dream.   God tried  to 
build His second kingdom with  Israel but their unbelief 
and disobedience   shattered God's  dream,  too.  Jesus 
came and disarmed  and destroyed  the devil.  By doing 
so, the Lord wanted to establish His  kingdom.  That is 
why  Jesus  proclaimed,  "Repent,  for  the  kingdom  of 
heaven is   near." Jesus  is the   king of  His  kingdom. 
Where there   is the  king and   the people,  there is   a 
kingdom.  For this reason the Lord told His disciples to 
proclaim, "Repent, for  the kingdom of  heaven is  near." 
The disciples were told to bring people to accept Him.
Matthew   28:19-20  says,   "Therefore  go   and   make 
disciples of all  nations, baptizing  them in the  name of 
the Father and of  the Son and  of the Holy Spirit,  and 
teaching them  to obey   everything I have   commanded 
you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end 
of the age."  When we receive the Holy Spirit, proclaim 
the gospel  to all  the people  on earth   and when they 
receive Jesus, we  will have the  kingdom of  heaven in 
our hearts.
Luke 17:21 says,  "nor will  people say, `Here  it is,'  or 
`There it  is,' because   the kingdom of   God is within 
you."  When we  receive Jesus, He  will enter  into our 
hearts as the king and we will be His  people. Since He 
will control and reign over us, we will be mini-heavens. 
We Christians are not ordinary people but mini-heavens. 
Jesus is  our  king, we   are His  people and   the Lord 
Himself controls His kingdom.  We  don't come and go 
accidentally.  Since the  Lord reigns,  when we  commit 
ourselves to  Him, God  will bless   us in spirit  and in 
body and in circumstances.  He will  pour His life upon 
us abundantly. We  have received  the gospel of  Christ. 
We  have   become mini-heavens.   We  now   have  to 
proclaim the gospel of  heaven and plant  heaven in the 
hearts of people.  The next thing  we have  to do is  to 
establish the church kingdom.
Matthew 18:19-20 says, "Again, I tell you that if two of 
you on earth agree  about anything you ask  for, it will 
be done for you  by my Father  in heaven.  For  where 
two or  three come  together in  my name,  there am   I 
with them."  The church  is the gathering  of believers. 
The church is the body of Christ. Since two or three of 
us have gathered here,  Jesus, the king  of the kingdom 
is here.  Since Jesus is our king and we are His people, 
the church   is the   kingdom. The   Lord controls   and 
reigns over His church.  The Lord is  with us now and 
controls us with the  power of heaven.  He forgives our 
sins.  He  reconciles us  to God   and makes us  God's 
children.  He drives out demons.  He heals.  He delivers 
us from curses and troubles. He establishes the kingdom 
of heaven.  We must establish the church kingdom.  We 
must build churches and expand the kingdom of heaven. 

Fourth,  when   the Spirit   came,  the   disciples found 
powerful  lives.  They  were   fishermen without   much 
education  or  social   power. They   thought  they  had 
nothing --no money, no power or fame. As soon as the 
Holy Spirit came, however, they found  wonderful power 
in them.  The Spirit  came to them as  the comforter-- 
`Parakletos' in Greek, meaning the Spirit of God who is 
sent by God and who is always with us. The Spirit, the 
comforter, comes to us Christians  and takes our hands.   
He   always   stays   with  us,   never   forsaking   us.    
Therefore, we have become people of God. The Spirit of 
God is the spirit of wisdom, the spirit of knowledge, the 
spirit of counseling, the  spirit of talents, the  spirit who 
fears God and the spirit of holiness. When this Spirit of 
God comes to  and stays  with us,  since He  takes our 
hands and  guides us,   we will be  changed  no matter 
who we may  have been-- fishermen,  tax collectors  or 
social outcasts.
I once   gave this  testimony  to you   before.  I  went 
Pensacola and  prayed in  a hotel  room, "God,  I am   a 
fool. I   am nothing   but a   fool. I   don't have   much 
education. I don't  have academic degrees.  I don't have 
high positions or  fame.  I am  only a fool."  Then God 
said, "I know that. I  know that you are  a fool." I was 
surprised.  "God, do you really know that I am  a fool?" 
"Yes, I know that.  However, I, who use you, am not a 
fool."  I   gained  enormous  courage   from  His  word.    
Although I am a fool,  God who uses me  is not a fool. 
You may also think that you are a fool but the Spirit of 
God who is within you is not a fool.  The Spirit of God 
is the  spirit of   wisdom, the spirit   of knowledge, the 
spirit of counseling, the  spirit of talents, the  spirit who 
fears God and the spirit of holiness.
The Spirit will teach, remind, rebuke, comfort and guide 
you. Therefore, you  are not  ordinary people.  You  are 
clothed by the power of  God.  Listen to John 14:26-27, 
"But the Counselor,  the Holy  Spirit, whom  the Father 
will send in my name, will teach you all things and will 
remind you of  everything I  have said to  you. Peace  I 
leave with you; my peace  I give you. I  do not give to 
you as   the world  gives. Do   not let  your hearts   be 
troubled and do not be  afraid."  The Spirit came  to us 
and became   our power.  The Spirit   will give  us the 
grace to pray, to  proclaim the gospel,  to have faith, to 
love, to serve and to dedicate ourselves.
Not only  that,  the Spirit  of  God gives  us  wonderful 
gifts.    To  some,   the  Spirit   gives  the   gifts   of 
revelations--the message   of wisdom,  the  message of 
knowledge, or the gift to distinguish between spirits. To 
some  others,   the Spirit   gives  the   vocal gifts--the 
prophecy, speaking in different kinds  of tongues, or the 
interpretation of  tongues.  To  others, the  same Spirit 
gives the gifts of  power-- faith, healing, or  miraculous 
powers. God   wants to   work miraculously  by  giving 
these gifts of the Spirit to us.
The disciples  of Jesus  experienced a   dramatic change 
when the Spirit descended upon them in the upper room.  
As a   worm becomes   a butterfly,   coming out   of a 
cocoon, their   lives were  transformed  when  the  Holy 
Spirit came.  They used  to despair.  They  used to be 
nothing.  They  were uneducated.   However, when the 
Spirit came, they  experienced a dramatic  change. They 
came to understand the  true meaning of  the death and 
the resurrection of Jesus. They came to understand why 
Jesus was crucified, shedding His blood and tearing  His 
body. They understood their status, the meaning and the 
value of  their lives,  and their  tasks to  do. When  we 
believe in Jesus and receive the Holy  Spirit, we will be 
completely   changed  and,   consequently,   change  our 
destinies and surroundings. 
