February 22th.1998.
Title : Whatever He Does Prospers
Scripture Reading : Psalm 1:1 - 3

  (part 1)Today, I would like to deliver a message titled, "Whatever He Does Prospers."
  To us who are going through a dark economic crisis, the Word, "Whatever he does prospers," is like sweet rain on dry land. There has never been a time when we need prosperity more than now. So what shall we do to be prosperous? The Lord says that blessing runs after man but not the circumstance. We always long for blessings. Yet the Bible instructs us that blessing comes to those who will be blessed. Then how can we be blessed? We should listen to what God says. Now when our lives seem to be in the wilderness, we need to be blessed. 
  The Bible clearly tells us in Psalm 1 about those who will be blessed. 

  First, blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked. What kind of people are the wicked? They are greedy, steal, kill and destroy their neighbors.
(part 2) In recent day, there are great many knaves around us. In the days of the World War 2, Hitler slaughtered about 6 million Jews. To reach his goal and his political relief and to meet his cupidity, he regarded people's life worthless and killed. He smoked some of the 6 million Jews to death in gas chamber. It was a peak of wickedness. Hitler was knave in his own right. And in time of the Cold War, Stalin did genocide his 30 thousand countrymen to establish communism. He was also an example representing a knave. It was the same as Japanese colonialism. Japan attacked Korea, Manchuria and the south east Asia to control the whole Asia. How many people did japan kill and trample down? Through Japanese colonialism, an example of wickedness was demonstrated.
  Wickedness is to steal, kill and destroy others by fair means or foul without sparing other's lives to achieve his own purpose and avarice. In recent days, there was an accident in which two juveniles stabbed a woman teacher to death and threw her body into the river because she drove her car in a narrow road too slow for them to pass. What a shameful thing it is! In spite of the fact that she couldn't give her way due to the narrow lane, they dragged her out of the car and killed. Their action was ruthless and wicked. 
  It is evil to steal, kill and destroy others without flinching for their selfish purpose. Like this, in recent days there are many people who try to reach their goal through evil ways. They do not hesitate to commit crimes such as drug traffic, flesh traffic and murder. 
  Timothy 6:9-10 says, "People who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge men into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people, eager for money, have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs."  Many people just try to make money by being greedy and doing evil. Therefore, we should be far from the wicked to be blessed.
  In Jeremiah 2:13, the Lord pointed out the sin the Israelites committed, "My people have committed two sins: They have forsaken me, the spring of living water, and have dug their own cisterns, broken cisterns that cannot hold water." The evil one doesn't acknowledge God. He is just selfish and ignores God. The Lord pointed out two sins from the Israelites, for they had forsaken God and they had dug their own cisterns by themselves without God, yet the cisterns were broken so they couldn't hold water. Since there is a curse without God's blessing in whatever the wicked do, their work is like the broken cistern though it is done by all means. The cistern can't hold water. The wicked are slaves to selfishness and greed, and they do anything for those things, but it is no use. In history, The wicked didn't succeed 
as politicians or businessmen. The wicked never prospered. They were always destroyed. Only when we don't walk with the wicked, we can be blessed. We will never be blessed by
evil means in this world. In order not to walk with the wicked, we should serve and worship God. If we do anything without God, we'll fail. God is the spring of living water, spiritual living water, mental wisdom and our lives. When we live on the foundation of God, we will not walk with the wicked. We should remove our unrighteousness and greed. After desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin; and sin, when it is full-grown, gives birth to death. If we have greed, we will try abnormal ways and do unreasonable things. We will not walk with the Holy Spirit and we will do unjust and corrupt things. That's because we have greed. Greed comes into man and makes him do evil which will make him fall into death.
  Ephesians 4:18-20 reads, "They are darkened in their understanding and separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardening of their hearts. Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity, with a continual lust for more. You, however, did not come to know Christ that way." Therefore we should know Jesus Christ and serve God in our hearts and get rid of greed and lust. Then we can be far away from the wicked. 
  We can see many wicked people who easily become greedy and are destroyed. To be blessed we must not be deceived by the wicked. We should not be with those who are slaves to selfishness and greed, kill, set fire, smuggle, and do evil things. We can't be happy and succeed around those people. We can't be blessed when we're with them. The blessing of God will never be with them. Therefore when we leave the wicked, we can be blessed. 

  Secondly, blessed is the man who does not stand in the way of sinners. Sinners are those who know the law and violate it. Those who do not know the law of God are the wicked but not sinners. People who know that God exists and violate His law are called sinners.       Romans 7:7-9 says, 'What shall we say, then? Is the law sin? Certainly not! Indeed I would not have known what sin was except through the law. For I would not have known what coveting really was if the law had not said, "Do not covet." But sin, seizing the opportunity afforded by the commandment, produced in me every kind of covetous desire. For apart from law, sin is dead. Once I was alive apart from law; but when the commandment came, sin sprang to life and I died." Likewise, when we know the law and commandments we can know what sin is. When we have a mirror, we can see how dirty our faces are. Without a mirror we can't see anything on our faces. Therefore, sinners are those who know the law of God. Sinners know God's existence and His law but violate it; that is, the Christians. We Christians know that God is alive and about His law. Yet we break the law and commit sin. 
  Therefore, "to be blessed, we should not stand in the way of sinners" means that we must not walk in sin continually. There is no one who is righteous without sinning.
Yet our Lord wants us to repent when we commit sin. The Bible says, "If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." We must not stand and go in the way of sinners. We should always repent and confess our sins and turn from sin. Therefore, believers should continue to be sensitive to their sins and repent and confess them. There is no one who never sins nor is completely righteous on this earth. That's why it is most important for us to repent. 
  Sinners turn away from the way of the righteous. Sin is "Hamartia," which means when we shoot an arrow we miss the mark. If we begin to turn away from the way of righteousness, before long we will be trapped and have sorrows. If we do not want to stand in the way of sinners, we should keep the law of God in our hearts and meditate on His commands all the time. 
  We know God's commandments so well, don't we? "You shall have no other gods before Me." We should think of ourselves in this commandment so that we will not have other gods but Jehovah. "You shall not bow down to idols." We should consider this command in our hearts all the time so we will not bow down to the idols made of gold, silver and iron, nor bow down to the idols of wealth, splendor and fame of this world. If there is anything that we love and admire more than God, that is our idol. That's why we should always serve and worship God above all. Since we have the commandment, "You shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God," we have to call Him with true honor, love and awe. Because of the commandment, "Remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy," we worship and serve the Lord first on the day of the Lord's resurrection. As the Lord says, "Seek first His kingdom and righteousness," we should first greet and accept Him on the Lord's day, for He comes to church and meet His people on the Sabbath day. He is with us on week days and in particular He is waiting for us on this Sabbath day. He receives our worship and praises and blesses us. As the scripture says, "Honor your father and mother," if we keep that in mind, it will guide us to a right way. Nowadays most people do not live with their parents under a nuclear family system. They do not care for their parents due to selfishness. Yet the scripture points out, "Do you honor your parents? Do you disregard them?" This scripture controls us when we have complaints and resistance against them. When we keep this commandment in mind, we can repent and honor our parents. "You shall not murder." (part 3) Why do people kill others so often? Some people commit murder because they are under the weather, or others glance at them and drive a car slowly. The law of God tells us to kill the one who murdered. Recently some Christians insist that murders should not be put to death, but the Bible says that murderers must be killed. How does he, who cruelly took others' lives, insist on his rights? I disagree to that opinion. The one who brutally killed others can not be forgiven. He must pay for that so that the order of our society can be kept. Since we have the commandment in mind, "You shall not murder," we can control ourselves though we intend to murder or hate. 
  The Bible also says, "You shall not commit adultery." The moral practices of sex are so corrupt these days, aren't they? How terrible are the lust and immorality! (part 4) In a yesterday program on TV, a story about a Japanese man was aired. The Japanese man, who had grudge against a Korean man who had had sexual relationship with his wife, came to Korea, killed the Korean man and set him on the fire. Adultery brought destruction to a person and his home. if we have the Word in mind, "You shall not commit adultery," we will be led to the way of righteousness, for the Word shines brightly in our hearts so we won't sin. "You shall not steal." We rob God in tithes. Yet the Bible strictly says, "You shall not steal." If we have this commandment in mind, we won't rob God nor steal anything of our neighbor. "You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor." We often give false testimony against our neighbor. We insult our neighbor with false testimony. We deliver negative images about our neighbors and criticize them. This is the sin that almost all people commit. We do that with our lips by giving false testimony against our neighbor. As long as we clearly know the scripture, we should repent of our false testimony and be washed by the blood of Jesus. Our hearts must be cleansed from sin. If we give compliments, encourage and say good things to our neighbor, how rich and good our lives will be! When we keep the commandment, our lives will be like that. "You shall not covet your neighbor." To covet is to commit idolatry. If we covet, we will be captives to greed and abandon God and His grace. Therefore, we must be very careful not to covet. We have greed about what we have. If we think about that greed, we will do injustice and become corrupt so that we will go wrong and make problems. Hence, we must keep God's commandments in mind and meditate on them every day so we don't stand in the way of sinners. Every morning we must meditate on them and pray in accordance with them. As a result, blessed are those who observe God's commands. 
  Hosea 4:6 states, "My people are destroyed from lack of knowledge. 'Because you have rejected knowledge, I also reject you as my priests; because you have ignored the law of your God, I also will ignore your children." If we ignore God's law and commandments, He will ignore us and won't listen to our prayers. We are saved by faith in Jesus depending on
His blood, but to be blessed we should keep God's commandments and be in the right relationship with Him. 

  Thirdly, the Bible tells us, "Blessed are the man who does not sit in the seat of mockers." Who are the mockers? They are rich in mind. They think they have so much that they boast about themselves. They fall into narcissism. The proud never mourn and repent for their lack and weakness nor try to be improved. They are full of arrogance and boast about themselves.
  Proverbs 16:18 reads, "Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall." Satan is that one, isn't he? God made Lucifer the most beautiful archangel. He was intoxicated in his beauty and forgot the Lord God. He plotted to take the throne of God and exile Him so that he might be the Lord, but he was driven out and became Satan. "Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall." 
  Adam was man, but he wished to be the creator. There was a pit, which can't be crossed, between the Creator and the creature. However, Adam was tempted by Satan and fell by taking the fruit from the tree of good and evil to be like God. In history, the tower of Babel is an eternal lesson to man. People said, "Let us set up a tower that reaches to the heavens so that we may make a name for ourselves and not be scattered." If people were to make their names instead of God's and be as high as Him, they were surely judged by Him. Therefore, if we build up the tower of politics, economy and culture without God, it already has the seed of destruction. Before the tower is built up,
God must judge it politically, economically or culturally. History proves that. "Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall."
(part 5) Why do you think Korea is now suffering this tragic IMF crisis? This is originated from the 88 Olympic Games. Whenever I went abroad, I was told these words from foreigners, "Dr. Cho, please recommend Korea not hold Olympic Games." Then I asked, " Why? Korea is able to hold Olympic Games." But they often said, " It is not proper time for Korea to host the Games. Once Korea hold Olympic Games, Korean people's heart will become rich and haughty so lamentation in heart will disappear. Then, Korea will fail to enter the line of developed countries." When I heard these stories, I was displeased. I thought they said on the basis of colonialism  so that they might lead plenty lives and we stay as developing country. 
However, as they said, Korean people stopped making efforts to live well. After being given big hand, Korea tapped champagne too early. So employers were overzealous not to their work but to investment into real estate; Employees not to their works but to corruption; common people not to saving but to spree. In addition, politician fabricate statistic figures to show that economy is bullish, dashing Korea into this situation.
  Isaiah 13:11 says, "I will punish the world for its evil, the wicked for their sins. I will put an end to the arrogance of the haughty and will humble the pride of the ruthless." 

  Fourthly, "Blessed is the man whose delight is in the law of Lord and who meditates on His law day and night." Jesus is the completion of the law. 
  Romans 10:4 states, "Christ is the end of the law so that there may be righteousness for everyone who believes." Therefore, today our law is Jesus Christ. We must love, fear and meditate on Him day and night. We should meditate on Jesus who became for us a sin offering, a guilt offering, a burnt offering and a fellowship offering so that He might destroy all our sins and give us forgiveness and righteousness. Since the wall of enmity between God and man was broken by the blood of Jesus, we should meditate and feel that we now have a fellowship of love with God and He has become our Father and we have become His children. We have to meditate upon the fact that Christ took up our infirmities and carried our sickness by bleeding on the cross so that we may be healed in spirit, mind and body. Then the light of His healing will shine upon us. We should also meditate upon the fact that
Jesus was cursed on the cross so that we might be free from the curse of the law. We should also meditate upon the fact that Christ became poor for our sake so we might be rich and free from curse to have the blessing of Abraham. We should meditate upon the fact that Jesus died in place of us to destroy death and He rose from the dead so that we might have eternal life in heaven. I meditate on the fivefold gospel of Christ's cross and pray according to this grace every day. We have to meditate on Jesus Christ, the law of Jehovah, thank Him and live in His grace. As the scripture says, "Anyone who is in Christ is a new creation. The old has gone and the new has come."  We should meditate on the fact that we have become new in Christ. At the same time, we should delight in God's Word, read, hear and meditate on that.
  Psalm 119:97 states, "Oh, how I love your law! I meditate on it all day long."
  Psalm 119:165 also says, "Great peace have they who love your law, and nothing can make them stumble." By meditating on Jesus Christ and the scripture, reading and rejoicing in it, we can be moral. 
  Psalm 119:101-102 reads, "I have kept my feet from every evil path so that I might obey your word. I have not departed from your laws, for you yourself have taught me." Those who meditate on Jesus and His word become moral and wise.
  Psalm 119:98-100 says, "Your commands make me wiser than my enemies, for they are ever with me. I have more insight than all my teachers, for I meditate on your statutes. I have more understanding than the elders, for I obey your precepts." By listening to, reading and meditating on the word of God, we can be wise and have insight. 
  Proverbs 9:10 reads, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of the Holy One is understanding." We can have wisdom by meditating upon Jesus and His word.
  1 Corinthians 1:30 says, "It is because of Him that you are in Christ Jesus, who has become for us wisdom from God--that is, our righteousness, holiness and redemption." We can be wise through Christ and His word.
  Proverbs 4:7-9 tells us, "Wisdom is supreme; therefore get wisdom. Though it cost all you have, get understanding. Esteem her, and she will exalt you; embrace her, and she will honor you. She will set a garland of grace on your head and present you with a crown of splendor." If we meditate on Jesus Christ and His instruction and rejoice in His word, we can be moral, wise and have understanding so as to be successful. The scripture says, "Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners or sit in the seat of mockers. But his delight is in Jesus Christ, the law of the Lord, and on His law he meditates, thanks and prays day and night. He is like a tree planted by steams of water, which yields its fruit in season and whose leaf does not wither. Whatever he does prospers." For an individual, households and nations who walk with the Lord and pray under those conditions, God will work and uphold them, so that they may prosper, be the head, not the tail, at the top, never at the bottom and lend to others but borrow from none. If we admit and recognize today's word, we can all be blessed. The Bible says, "You will be blessed when you go out and come in and your kneading trough will be blessed." Therefore we must be blessed, so our country and our lives will be blessed, too.

  (part 6) -prayer-
  Holy and glorious our father God.  Everyone wants to be blessed. All people want to get blessings in their environments. However, God informs us that the blessed create blessings wherever they go. Our Father God, You suggest preconditions for blessings, that is to say, the Word of God who is stedfast and ever last. Help us meditate on this word and realize so we may be the blessed who can change our circumstances. Help us be the people who bring Your blessings into our surroundings wherever we go. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
