May.22th.1998
Title : David, Saul and Goliath
Scripture reading : 1 Samuel 17:31-37

(part 1) I would like to deliver a message, titled "David, Saul and Goliath" 
Before Goliath, the Philistine champion, Saul, the king of Israel, and his army were terrified, but David was bold. They were the chosen people of God and worshipped Him. Saul and his army were overwhelmed by Goliath. Yet, why was the young shepherd, David, bold and did he overwhelm Goliath? (part 2)We are currently facing the "IMF crisis" which looms like Goliath over the Korean Peninsula. Our faith will determine wether Korea is put under by Goliath, the IMF crisis, or overcomes Goliath and reaches a new height of development and sucess. 

  First, David conquered Goliath while Saul and his army were frightened and fled. What was the reason? (part 3) It depends on wether we are overwhelmed by disadventageous reality or not. That's because David was angry at such wrongful situation while Saul was afraid of Goliath and fled. When Goliath yelled, Saul and his army were terrified crawling on the ground to hide themselves. But David felt so sorry to see the Israel army demoralized by Goliath. Unless we feel sorry for trouble we can't cope with that trial. 
  In 1 Samuel 17:26, David asked the men standing near him,"What will be done for the man who kills this Philistine and removes this disgrace from Israel? Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God?" Young David was angry at the armies of the living God, for they ran away from Goliath. He said, "Who is this Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God?" He was so angry at the Israel armies who fled from Goliath. That is the difference between Saul and David. Saul was not sorry for that situation. He was just frightened and puzzled while David felt terrible and resented that the uncircumcised Philistine defied the armies of the living God. 
  The Bible says in Matthew 5:4, "Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted." If we don't feel sorry for our wrong situation, God will not use us. If we are indifferent to our difficult situation, how does God help us? (part 4)When we feel sorry for Goliath, the IMF crisis, our country can be delivered out of this situation and be blessed by God. There must be a great many politicians who feel sorry for this situation. Politicians must grieve at this IMF crisis and make efforts to solve this problem. If they think, "I don't care if Korea survives or not. We should seek only our party's gain. We don't need to think of people. Regardless of the INF crisis, it is alright with us, only when our party gets power and practices it," God will not help such a nation. Looking at this reality, politicians must shed their tears.
  Facing this situation, employers must feel sorry. Employers, who think we should earn as much money as possible regardless of method, must not exist. If an employer, who think, "Although my company is found bankrupt so employees are driven out to the streets, I myself can channel company asset, go abroad and live in style," exist, our country is destined to ruins. There must be employers, who feel sorry for the IMF crisis. When employers, who think, "This trouble was brought on by our fault. Therefore, we must work hard and revive our country. We must sell our ill-gotten properties, invest them into companies and clear our debt, reviving our country. It is better for us to make more jobs," are many, God will help us.
  In addition, there must be many employees who feel sorry for this situation and think, "Now, let's stop striking and speaking ill of each other. Let's work hard even in the 3D sectors. We must do more work beyond statutory work hours and make our efforts to reconstruct economy." Also, people must be enlightened so that they may throw away extravagance and save money. If people are squashed together in luxurious bars and in expensive stores in department stores again, God's blessing will be of no use. Only people who feel sorry for this situation can discriminate between wrong and good, and bring innovation and change. 
  Personal life is the same. To a person who feels sorry for his own drawback, sheds tear and makes new resolution, God will give grace and love. If a person is like a candle in the wind and lives without any plan, God will not help him. Fathers should be sorry that they didn't take care of their families well. So should housewives and children. If those people get together, miracles will take place and change their destinies and circumstances. 
  When Saul and his armies ran away from Goliath, the shepherd, David, was angry saying, "Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God?" That's why God didn't use Saul but young David. 

  Secondly, only when we have certain knowledge of God, we can cope with trials. Saul was unaware of Almighty God. 
  We read in 1 Samuel 17:33,"Saul replied, 'You are not able to go out against this Philistine and fight him; you are only a boy, and he has been a fighting man from his youth.' "When David was going out to fight depending on God, Saul didn't say anything about Him. Saul told David, "You are only a boy, and Goliath has been a fighting man from his youth. You can't fight him." Saul didn't mention the word of God. He had a religion but was not aware of God. That's why he didn't have knowledge of God to cope with a crisis. 
  Yet, David was different from him. He was a young shepherd but he had certain knowledge of God. He had experienced knowledge of God. He experienced Almighty God. 
  1 Samuel 17:34-37 says, "David said to Saul, 'Your servant has been keeping his father's sheep. When a lion or a bear came and carried off a sheep from the flock, I went after it, struck it and rescued the sheep from its mouth. When it turned on me, I seized it by its hair, struck it and killed it. Your servant has killed both the lion and the bear; this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, because he has defied the armies of the living God. The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine.' Saul said to David, "God, and the Lord be with you." He had such an experienced knowledge of God, didn't he? Saul didn't say anything about God, but David said, "Though I am a young boy and shepherd, God is with me and I struck a lion and a bear. God who delivered me from the teeth of the lion and the paw of the bear will deliver me from this Philistine." He had a certain and experienced knowledge of God. If we are to overcome the trouble, we have to know God with certainty. If we are afraid of our circumstance unaware of God, we can't do anything. 
  How can we know God for sure? We should know Him who told us through the cross? Today God keeps telling us through Jesus Christ on the cross at Calvary. If we clearly know the message of God that Jesus delivered dying on the cross, we can overcome any crisis. 
  Isaiah 53:5-6 reads, "He was pierced for our transgressions, He was crushed for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was upon Him, and by His wounds we are healed. We all, like sheep, have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way; and the Lord has laid on Him the iniquity of us all." This is the very message of the cross. God crucified Jesus Christ and tells us His message through Him. Only when we certainly know the message, we can defeat Goliath. 
  What is the message? It is the forgiveness and righteousness from the cross. God is telling us, "I will forgive you all your sins through the cross of Jesus Christ. If you just believe in Him, I will make you righteous. Therefore, receive forgiveness and righteousness." We can have the message and confess our sins, then we can be forgiven and righteous so that we may be proud of our faith. 
  God is telling us the message that He is inviting us as His family members through the cross of Christ. God is saying, "I made you near me through the blood of Jesus Christ. If you come to me, I will pour the Holy Spirit and my love upon you and make you my child. If we are sure that we have received the Holy Spirit and become the child of God and God who created heaven and earth and everything in it is our own Father, we will be proud of ourselves, won't we? Are we afraid of a bear, a lion or Goliath? God who made heaven and earth and everything in it is our own Father and we are His own children so we can pray to our Father and depend on the Holy Spirit. What can we fear? Therefore, we should clearly realize the message of God through the cross. 
  God continues to tell us the message healing through the cross. God is telling us, "He took up our infirmities and carried our sicknesses and by His wounds we are healed." If we listened to this message of God and accept it, we don't have to fear sickness, do we? Do we fear cancer, heart disease, or arthritis? Goliath is nothing to God. We should receive the message of God from the cross. Though God tells us the message, if we do not accept it, it would be of no use. 
  Today God tells us the message of blessing and prosperity through the cross. We should listen to Him. "Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written: 'Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree.' He redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus." Likewise God is telling us the message through the cross. If we listen to the message of the cross and receive it, we can be freed from curse and poverty. We can have faith in our hearts. Then God will give us blessing. 
  God is inviting us to the glory of heaven through the cross, saying, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened." He is telling us, "If our earthly tents are destroyed, we have an eternal house in heaven, not built by human hands through Jesus Christ." 
  Today if we clearly hear the message of the Lord through the cross and realize it and have the certain knowledge of God, everything will go well with us in good health as our souls are getting along well. Saul didn't know God but David did. Since Saul looked at Goliath in human way, he was afraid of Goliath while David knew God and looked at Goliath depending upon Him and he didn't fear Goliath. Today if we are to overcome our individual and national destinies, we must have certain knowledge of God. We should look at the cross and realize the message of fivefold gospel and threefold blessings. Relying on the message, we must look at Goliath in our circumstance without fear. 

  Thirdly, we should not fear but be bold. Without boldness, we can't do anything. Saul and his armies fled when Goliath yelled just once. They were not bold but full of fear. Yet, God tells us to be bold. 
  When Moses died, God chose Joshua and anointed him, saying in Joshua 1:5-9, "No one will be able to stand up against you all the days of your life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you; I will never leave you nor forsake you. 'Be strong and courageous, because you will lead these people to inherit the land I swore to their forefathers to give them. Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the law my servant Moses gave you; do not turn from it to the right or to the left, that you may be successful wherever you go. Do not let this Book of the Law depart from your mouth; meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do everything written in it. Then you will be prosperous and successful. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be terrified; do not be discouraged, for the Lord your God will be with you wherever you go." 
  Here we can see that Joshua needed strength and courage to be successful. So the Lord told him over and over again,"Be strong and courageous, for I am with wherever you go." We are in the same situation. Jesus said, "Behold! Surely I will be with you always, to the very end of the age." "On that day, you will see that I am in the Father; you in me; and I in you. Where two or three  come together in my name, there am I with them. Therefore, be strong and courageous." Unless we are not strong and courageous, we can't defeat Goliath in our destiny. Saul was not strong and courageous. 
  We see that in I Samuel 17:24-25, "When the Israelites saw the man, they all ran from him in great fear. Now the Israelites had been saying, 'Do you see how this man keeps coming out? He comes out to defy Israel. The king will give great wealth to the man who kills him. He will also give him his daughter in marriage and will exempt his father's family from taxes in Israel."
Saul was so fearful that he said, "I will give my daughter to him who kills Goliath and exempt his father's family from taxes in Israel." He was terrified. 
  But look at David in 1 Samuel 17:32, "David said to Saul, 'Let no one lose heart on account of this Philistine; your servant will go and fight him.' "The Israel armies ran away and a little shepherd came and said, "Do not lose heart on account of Goliath; I will go and fight him." He was bold. God uses the bold. He won't use those who shrink back with fear due to the circumstance. God uses those who have courage and strength and go forward in any circumstance. God will never use a coward. What should we do to be bold? 
  Hebrews 10:35 says, "So do not throw away your confidence; it will be richly rewarded." To be courageous, we should meditate on the word of God. 
  Joshua 1:8 reads, "Do not let this Book of the Law depart from your mouth; meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do everything written in it. Then you will be prosperous and successful." If we read and meditate on the word of God, we will be close to Him and be strong and bold. I ask you to read the Bible every day, for you can get the knowledge of God as much as you read and become close to Him and you won't be afraid of the world. To be courageous, we should pray deeply. To pray is to talk with God. If we deeply pray to God, our concern, distress, uneasiness, and despair will disappear like clouds. Instead, the courage and strength will come into our hearts. Since God sent us the Holy Spirit to help us, we should recognize, welcome, invite, and depend upon Him. (part 5)Whenever we face important things, if we fall face down and say, " O, the Holy Spirit, lay hold of me. I accept, welcome, invite and count on You. Please be with me.", then the Holy Spirit helps our infirmities, says the bible.
  It is written in psalm 3:6-7, "I will not fear the tens of thousands drawn up against me on every side. Arise, O Lord! Deliver me, O my God! Strike all my enemies on the jaw; break the teeth of the wicked." Then, the Holy Spirit arises and gives us strength. The next, we can be bold when we lead obedient lives. When we live our lives against God's will, we are conscience-stricken so we can't be bold.

  Fourth, we should have faith so that we may challenge the impossibility. Though we think we can't and don't do, we have to challenge believing that we can do. 
  1 Samuel 17:33 says, "Saul replied, "You are not able to go out against this Philistine and fight him; you are only a boy, and he has been a fighting man from his youth." Saul said that it was impossible for David to fight Goliath. Yet, David had faith to challenge the impossibility. 
  1 Samuel 17:37 reads, "The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine" Saul said to David, "Go, and the Lord be with you." David wanted to challenge the impossibility. When all other people said that it was impossible, David said that it was possible. If we believe in God, we should challenge the impossibility. Faith doesn't mean that we don't believe in ourselves. Since we trust in God who made heaven and earth and everything in it, we should see things with the view of God and challenge what we can't. 
  Mark 11:22-24 states, "Have faith in God, Jesus answered. "I tell you the truth, if anyone says to this mountain, 'Go, throw yourself into the sea,' and does not doubt in his heart but believes that what he says will happen, it will be done for him. Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours." If we believe in Jesus, we can challenge the greatest mountain. If we say to the mountain, "Go, throw yourself into the sea," it seems impossible in a human way. However, we must go forward if we trust in God. Unbelievers think with their senses and do only what they can, but believers should try impossible things with faith. If we challenge with knowledge and hope of Almighty God, He will be with us. When the ten Israel men spied out the land of Canaan for 40 days and nights, they didn't have faith. They said, "Their fortresses were high up in the sky and all the people we saw were of great size. We seemed like grasshoppers. We can't enter the land." Yet Joshua and Caleb said, "No, their guide has left them and they are our prey. Let us go into the land. If God wants, we can take it. They challenged the impossibility. God destroyed in the wilderness those who didn't challenge the impossibility, but He enabled Joshua and Caleb to enter the land of Canaan with their descendants. (part 6) A great many people facing the IMF crisis say in negative way. They say, "There is only dispair before us." However, challenging this situation is faith. " 'If you can?' said Jesus. 'Everything is possible for him who believes.'", "It will be done just as you believed." says the bible. When we go forward to a great mountain and challenge with our faith, Goliath will fall down.

  Fifth, we should expect a miracle. Saul was a rationalist. 
  1 Samuel 17:38-39 says, "Then Saul dressed David in his own tunic. He put a coat of armor on him and a bronze helmet on his head. David fastened on his sword over the tunic and tried walking around, because he was not used to them. 'I cannot go in these,' he said to Saul, 'because I am not used to them.' So he took them off." Saul thought that he had to wear a coat of armor, a bronze helmet and a sword to win a war. He was a rationalist. Yet, David didn't need a helmet, a coat of armor and a sword, for God was with him. He believed that he could win without anything if God was with him. Saul didn't consider God at any moment, but David did and expected a miracle. 
  1 Samuel 17:40-44 states, "Then he took his staff in his hand, chose five smooth stones from the stream, put them in the pouch of his shepherd's bag and, with his sling in his hand, approached the Philistine. Meanwhile, the Philistine, with his shield bearer in front of him, kept coming closer to David. He looked David over and saw that he was only a boy, ruddy and handsome, and he despised him. He said to David, "Am I a dog, that you come at me with sticks?" And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. 'Come here,' he said, 'and I'll give your flesh to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field!' " Then what did David answer? Did he say, "I put on Saul's helmet, coat of armor and sword, and I'm armed with modern arms"? No, David always considered God in what he did. 
  David said to the Philistine in 1Samuel 17: 45-47, "You come against me with sword and spear and javelin, but I come against you in the name of the Lord Almighty, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. This day the Lord will hand you over to me, and I'll strike you down and cut off your head. Today I will give the carcasses of the Philistine army to the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth, and the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel. All those gathered here will know that it is not by sword or spear 
that the Lord saves; for the battle is the Lord's, and He will give all of you into our hands."
Here is a difference between Saul and David. Saul thought that he could fight Goliath only with modern arms, while David thought God would fight though he had only five smooth  stones. Unbelievers just use human wisdom, knowledge and manners, but we should put the cross in our lives and consider God all the time. If individuals, homes, our nation are to reveal a great power, we ought to consider God. The Bible says, "Acknowledge Him, and He will take care of you." If we accept God, we don't need a helmet, a coat of armor and a sword, for God is with us. God is enough for us, for He is the God of miracle. He is in control of time, space, history, our circumstances and destinies and performs miracles. If God is with us, all the problems will be finished. (part 7)We can't solve the problem of this IMF crisis with our ability. When we count God in this problem and rely on Him, and God commands, all these problems will come to an end. All troubles will be blown away like dust. At this juncture,  we must invite and pray to God, and count Him in our problems. We must work along with God. Then, by the power of God, our personal and national destiny will be changed. Before the Philistine champion, Goliath, both Saul and David were the same Israelites, the chosen people of God, and they had the same privilege as His people. However, Saul was a loser and David was a winner. That's because of the attitudes of their faith. Today we stand before the economic crisis of IMF, but if we have the right faith and attitude like David, we can overcome the crisis for sure.

  (part 8) -prayer-
  Abundant in love and holy our Father, God. Now, we are overwhelmed at Goliath, the IMF crisis. Though David and Saul were the Israelites, David was bold and struck Goliath down, bringing victory to Israel, while Saul fled away overwhelmed. Help our Yoido Full Gospel church's lay christians and Korean christian be like David. Help us not be caught by surprise. Help us feel sorry for reality and go ahead with faith. Help us work with God, and help us change our destiny and circumstances by the power of God. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
