Sunday, December 20th 1998
Title : The Relationship between God and Us
Scripture Reading : Hos 6:3

  Our lives depend  upon mutual relationships--between 
parents and children, between relatives, between  friends, 
between social organizations  and international  relations.  
Human relations are connected like cobwebs. We can be 
happy and successful  only when we  have good human 
relations. We   see that   our government   is trying  to 
improve its relationship  with North  Korea. There  is a 
far   more   important  relationship   than   any   human 
relations. It is  the relationship  between God  and man.   
When a  person's relationship  with God   is severed or 
damaged, he will have tragedies, losses and  disasters in 
his present and future life.

  However, God sent His  one and only  Son Jesus and 
sacrificed Him   on the  cross because   God wanted  to 
bless man, to  give hope  to man  and, thus, to  have a 
good relationship with man. When man accepts Jesus as 
his Savior, he will  be forgiven and loved  by God.  He 
will have a wonderful relationship with God. God clearly 
revealed Himself through His relationship with man. The 
name JEHOVAH is the name of God who redeems man.  
He reveals  His relationship   with man by  His  names. 
Since God reveals Himself through His names, we must 
know our relationship with God through His names.

  First, God   revealed His  name  as JEHOVAH   Jireh.  
This means  that God  provides for  us.  Genesis  22:14 
says, "So  Abraham called  that place   The LORD Will 
Provide. And to this day it is said, 'On the mountain of 
the LORD it will be  provided.'"  God wants to  have a 
relationship with   us by   providing for   us. Therefore, 
when  we  look  at  God,  we  should  know  that  God 
provides for   us and  stays with   us. JEHOVAH  Jireh 
revealed Himself to  Adam by  preparing the world  and 
the garden of Eden for  him.  He prepared Canaan--the 
land flowing with milk and  honey--for Israel.  He sent 
Jesus,  let  Him  shed  His  blood  and,  thus,  prepared 
salvation for sinners.  God provides  the way  for us  to 
receive  His   grace.  God   also  prepared   heaven  for 
believers. We  must have  a good  fellowship with   God 
who knows and provides  for us from  the beginning to 
the end.

  1 Corinthians 2:9-10 says, "However,  as it is written: 
'No eye   has seen,  no  ear  has heard,   no mind  has 
conceived what  God has  prepared for  those who  love 
Him'--but God  has  revealed it   to us  by His  Spirit.   
The Spirit searches all  things, even the  deep things of 
God."
  Psalm 139:16 also says, "Your eyes saw my unformed 
body. All the days ordained for me were written in your 
book before one of them came to be."  God provides for 
each and every one  of us.  Therefore,  we must know, 
have fellowship with, seek  and trust God who  provides 
all things for us.

  Second, God reveals Himself as JEHOVAH Rapha and 
wants   to  have   a  relationship   with   us  as   such.   
JEHOVAH Rapha   means God  who  heals. In   Exodus 
15:26, God said, "If  you listen carefully  to the voice of 
the LORD your God and  do what is right  in His eyes, 
if you pay attention to His  commands and keep all His 
decrees, I will not  bring on you  any of the  diseases I 
brought on  the  Egyptians, for  I  am the  LORD,  who 
heals you."  God clearly reveals Himself as the healer in 
the Old Testaments.  

  Psalm 103:1-3 says, "Praise the LORD, O my soul; all 
my inmost   being, praise   his holy   name. Praise   the 
LORD, O my soul, and forget not  all his benefits--who 
forgives all your sins  and heals all your  diseases," and 
thus makes it clear that God is the healer. 

  Psalm  107:17-20   also  says,   "Some  became   fools 
through  their  rebellious  ways  and  suffered  affliction 
because of their  iniquities.  They  loathed all food  and 
drew near the gates  of death.  Then they  cried to the 
LORD in their  trouble, and  he saved  them from  their 
distress.  He sent  forth his word  and healed them;  he 
rescued them from the grave."  By revealing Himself as 
the healer in the  New Testaments, God  wants to have 
relationships with us in terms of JEHOVAH Rapha.  

  Matthew 8:14-17 says, "When Jesus came into Peter's 
house, He saw Peter's mother-in-law lying in  bed with 
a fever. He touched her hand and the fever left her, and 
she got up  and began to  wait on Him.  When evening 
came, many who  were demon-possessed  were brought 
to Him, and He drove  out the spirits with  a word and 
healed all   the sick.   This  was  to fulfill   what was 
spoken through   the prophet  Isaiah: 'He   took up  our 
infirmities and carried our diseases.'" By doing so, Jesus 
clearly shows that God is JEHOVAH Rapha.

  Mark 16:17-18 says, "And these signs will accompany 
those who   believe: In  my name   they will  drive out 
demons; they will speak in new  tongues; they will pick 
up snakes with their hands; and when they drink deadly 
poison, it will not hurt them at all; they  will place their 
hands on  sick people,  and  they will  get well."    God 
wants  to  have  a  relationship  with  us  through  this 
name--JEHOVAH Rapha, God the healer.  

  James 5:14-16  says, "Is  any one  of you  sick?  He 
should call the  elders of  the church to  pray over  him 
and anoint him with oil in  the name of the Lord.  And 
the prayer  offered in  faith will  make the  sick  person 
well; the Lord  will raise him  up. If he  has sinned, he 
will be  forgiven. Therefore  confess your  sins to  each 
other and   pray for  each other   so that  you may   be 
healed. The prayer of  a righteous man is  powerful and 
effective."  Since God is JEHOVAH  Rapha Himself, He 
wants to have fellowship with us as such.

  Third, God reveals Himself as JEHOVAH Nissi.
  Exodus 17:15 says, "Moses built an altar and called  it 
The LORD is my Banner."   When the Israelites fought 
the Amalekites at  Rephidim, Moses  held up  his hands 
and his staff  of power and  prayed to God.   Then the 
Israelites were winning.  Joshua overcame the Amalekite 
army   with  the   sword.   God  revealed   Himself   as 
JEHOVAH   Nissi--the  LORD   is  my   Banner.   God 
emphasized that God  fights for  us through  this name.   
Today, when we lift up the  cross of Jesus and pray to 
God, God will  fight the enemies  for us and  will bring 
us victory.  God wants  to have a  relationship with us 
as JEHOVAH  Nissi by  becoming our  banner, fighting 
for us and bringing victory to us.

  Fourth, God  reveals  Himself as   JEHOVAH Shalom, 
our peace.
  Judges 6:24  says, "So   Gideon built an  altar  to the 
LORD there and called it  The LORD is Peace.  To this 
day it   stands in  Ophrah  of  the  Abiezrites."  Peace 
cannot be attained without power.   The Sunlight policy 
to North   Korea works   only when   we have  enough 
power to defend ourselves. No matter how much we use 
the Sunlight policy to North Korea, if we don't have the 
power to defend ourselves, they will attack  us and take 
possession  of  the  South.   Peace  unaccompanied  by 
power is fragile.   Eternal peace  can be  achieved only 
under the  reign of  the Almighty  God.  Since  God is 
omnipotent,  omniscient  and  omnipresent,   nobody can 
resist God.  We used to  be God's enemies and  sinners 
but we have been  forgiven through the  blood of Jesus 
and now we have peace with God.

  Colossians 1:20 says, "and through Him to reconcile to 
Himself all things, whether things on earth  or things in 
heaven, by making peace through His blood, shed on the 
cross."  Therefore,  when  we   follow God's   sovereign 
power with total obedience, we  will have eternal peace.   
God wants to give peace  to us, by having a  fellowship 
with us through the name JEHOVAH Shalom.

  Fifth, God reveals Himself as JEHOVAH Roi, meaning 
God is our shepherd.   Psalm 23:1 says, "The  LORD is 
my shepherd, I shall not  be in want."  Shepherds  feed, 
protect and take care of the sheep.  When we believe in 
Jesus and march forth with  faith, God will become  our 
Shepherd, leading,  keeping,  protecting, and  raising  us.  
God wants  to have  the same  relationship with  us  as 
that of a shepherd and his sheep.  He says, "I am  your 
shepherd and you are my sheep.  As a sheep follows its 
shepherd, follow me.  As a shepherd leads, cares, raises 
and feeds his  sheep, I  will take care  of you.   Let us 
have such a good  fellowship."  God reveals Himself  as 
JEHOVAH Roi. 

  Sixth, God reveals  Himself as  JEHOVAH Mekadesh.   
Exodus 31:13 says,  "so you  may know  that I  am the 
LORD, who makes  you holy."  Since  God is  holy, He 
cannot be mixed  with sin or  worldliness.  God  cannot 
reside in  the world  where  sin and  corruption prevail.    
God will not be in such places.   God destroyed sin and 
worldliness through the blood of  Jesus and came to us.   
He destroyed   sin and  worldliness  through the   cross.  
When we  are  washed and   cleansed by the   blood of 
Jesus, God calls us  from the world  and makes us  His 
holy people.  He  sanctifies us  with the  word and  the 
Spirit and lets us participate in the divine nature.

  2 Peter 1:4 says, "Through these He has given us His 
very great and precious promises, so  that through them 
you may participate in the divine nature  and escape the 
corruption in the  world caused  by evil  desires."  God 
gives us eternal  lives and the  Holy Spirit  and lets us 
participate   in   the   divine   nature.   The   Spirit   of 
sanctification dwells in  us, fills  us and leads  us.  We 
are separated from the devil  and the world through the 
Holy Spirit.  As water and oil don't mix, we live in the 
world but are not mixed  with it.  That is  because our 
God, JEHOVAH Mekadesh, separates us from the  world 
and sanctifies us.   The Bible  declares that  we cannot 
see God if we are unholy.  Therefore, through the blood 
of Jesus, we must have the relationship with JEHOVAH 
Mekadesh and experience God's sanctifying work.

  Seventh, God reveals Himself as JEHOVAH Tsidkenu, 
meaning God is our righteousness.   Jeremiah 23:6 says, 
"This is  the name  by  which He  will be   called: The 
LORD  Our  Righteousness."   Since God   is  righteous, 
sinners cannot stand before God.
  The Bible says, "for all have  sinned and fall short of 
the glory of God.  All  the souls that sin  will die." We 
cannot stand  before  God with   sins.  However,  since 
Jesus took all our sins and  put an end to them by  His 
shed blood and torn body,  all sins will be forgiven  and 
we will be  called righteous when  we receive  Jesus as 
the Lord.  

  2 Corinthians 5:21 proclaims a wonderful  truth.  Read 
with me.  "God made Him who had no sin to be sin for 
us, so that in Him  we might become the  righteousness 
of God."  Think  about it.  When  we believe in  Jesus, 
we will be made as righteous as God.  We used to live 
in the pit of  sins.  However, when we  wash ourselves 
with   the   blood   of  Jesus,   we   will   receive   the 
righteousness of Jesus as a gift and we  will become as 
righteous as   God. Hence,   we can  stand  before  God 
without   shame.  God   makes  us   confident.  God   is 
JEHOVAH Tsidkenu who  makes us  holy.  God's love 
and grace is so  great that He calls  us from the pit  of 
sins, washes   us with  Jesus'  blood, cleanses   us and 
makes us as righteous as Himself.  This is a gift which 
we receive through faith.  God makes whoever comes to 
Him holy  and  lets him  to  live with  Him  forever as 
JEHOVAH Tsidkenu.

  Eighth, God reveals Himself  as JEHOVAH Shammah, 
meaning the Lord is there.
  Ezekiel 48:35 says,  "And the  name of  the city  from 
that  time  on  will  be:  THE  LORD  IS  THERE."  It 
signifies that God  is in His  temple. God stayed  in the 
tabernacle in the desert and  in the Temple of Solomon.   
Today, God  lives  in us,   treating us as   His temples.   
God does not stay far away  from us. He is not  limited 
by time or  space. God dwells  in those  who believe in 
and call the  name of Jesus  Christ.  Since  we are the 
temples of God,  we can say  that God  stays in mobile 
temples. When   we come   to church,   God is   in the 
church. When  we  go home,  God  is there.   When we 
travel, God travels with us. Since we are the temples of 
God, we can worship, serve, trust and pray to God.  

  1 Corinthians  3:16 says,  "Don't you  know that  you 
yourselves are God's temple and that  God's Spirit lives 
in you?"
  1 Corinthians  6:19-20 also  says, "Do  you not  know 
that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in 
you, whom you  have received from  God? You are  not 
your own; you were bought at a  price. Therefore honor 
God with   your body."  God wants   to have  a special 
relationship with  man.  Unless God   has a relationship 
with us, He doesn't have to reveal Himself to us.  

  However,   since   He   wants   to  have   a   special 
relationship with us through Christ,  He wants to reveal 
Himself to us.  He wants us to know Him  and to have 
fellowship with  Him  through His   names. The  reason 
why He reveals His names  to us is because  He wants 
us to have a relationship with Him through His names.  

  JEHOVAH Jireh wants to have the fellowship with us 
as God who  provides.  Therefore,  we must  believe it, 
trusting and praying to Him, so that God will lead us to 
what He has prepared for us.  

  God tells   us to  have  a  relationship  with Him   as 
JEHOVAH Rapha. He says, "Since I am God who  heals 
you, I want to heal you with the word.  Repent of your 
sins and seek me.  Be healed by praying to me."  
He reveals  this  through His  name  JEHOVAH Rapha.   
JEHOVAH  Nissi  means  God  is  the  banner   of our 
victory. He says,  "You will  be attacked  in the  world.  
Don't try to fight for yourself but leave it to me.  Then 
I will fight for you and will bring victory to you."  God 
wants to  have a  special  relationship with  us as  God 
who fights for us.  God  says, "It is mine  to avenge; I 
will repay."  God wants to have this fellowship with us.  

  God is JEHOVAH  Shalom, our peace.   God says,  "I 
broke the wall between  you and me  through the blood 
of Jesus Christ.  I will bring peace to  your hearts.  No 
one  can  take   away from   you  the  peace  that   the 
omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent God gives.  My 
name is JEHOVAH Shalom--I am your  peace.  Money, 
positions, power or fame cannot bring you peace.  When 
you have fellowship with me in Jesus Christ, I will give 
you true peace."  

  Then God says, "I am JEHOVAH Roi--your shepherd.  
As a shepherd takes care of  his sheep, I will hold you, 
feed you,  clothe you,  raise you,  protect you,  and lead 
you. Let  us  have such   a fellowship.  Wait upon   me.  
Believe, obey, worship and follow  me. Then I will  give 
you  good   things  abundantly."  God   reveals  Himself 
because He  wants to  have such  a special  relationship 
with us.

  God says,  "I am  JEHOVAH  Mekadesh. I  will keep 
you holy in  the world  which is  full of sins,  filth and 
lust.  When you  have this  fellowship with  me, I  will 
pour the Holy Spirit on you and the Spirit will hold you 
lest you should be mixed with the world while  you live 
in the world. Since I revealed my names like this, come 
and have fellowship with  me. When you  pray to me  I 
will pour the Spirit on you and sanctify you."  

  God also  says, "I  am JEHOVAH  Tsidkenu.  I make 
you righteous.  No sinners can stand  before God. Since 
I am JEHOVAH  Tsidkenu, I  will make  you righteous.  
Since my   Son Jesus   Christ died   on the  cross  and 
forgave all your sins, you will  be made righteous when 
you come into Jesus."   God makes us  as righteous as 
Himself. Righteousness means not ever committing  sins. 
It means that the devil has  no ground to attack us.  It 
means that  a person  is qualified  to stand  before God 
without   shame.   God  promises   to   give   us   such 
qualifications. God invites us  to have such a  fellowship 
with Him.  

  He also says, "I am JEHOVAH Shammah.  You don't 
have to go to  Jerusalem to meet me.   You don't have 
to wander around in mountains or deserts.  You are the 
temples and I dwell in you  as JEHOVAH Shammah.  I 
will be  with you   when you stand   up, when you  sit 
down, when you are asleep and when you are awake.  I 
am always in you, my temple.  Come to me  and repent 
of your sins then I will forgive you.  When you cry out 
to me, I will answer you.  I will be always with you.  I 
will never forsake you  or leave you.  I  am JEHOVAH 
Shammah.  Let us have this fellowship."  

We are called from the  world to have a fellowship  and 
communication with   God. We  can  have  a fellowship 
with God only when we know who God is. Many people 
are saved by believing in Jesus.   However, so many of 
them do not know who God is and, consequently, fail to 
have the   correct relationship  with  God. They   cannot 
have a   fellowship with   God. Therefore,   they cannot 
receive God's  grace. They  are losing  God's blessings. 
"Praise the  LORD, O   my soul; all   my inmost being, 
praise His holy name. Praise the LORD, O my soul, and 
forget  not  all  his  benefits."  Let  us  not  forget  His 
benefits but have fellowship with  God.  When we pray 
to God, God's power and authority will come to us.

  God revealed His names to us for He wanted to  have 
a special relationship with us as revealed in  His names.  
His desires and  plans are  shown through  them.  God 
reveals Himself this way.
  Therefore, let us acknowledge the LORD; let us press 
on to acknowledge Him. As surely as the  sun rises, He 
will appear; He  will come  to us  like rains  that water 
the earth. God of today is not different from the God of 
yesterday. God never changes although the whole  world 
changes. Jesus Christ is the  same yesterday, today and 
forever. Therefore,   let us  know  God,  call His   name 
according to our  needs, and have  a special relationship 
with Him. Then God  will hear your cries  and manifest 
Himself with His glory and power.  He will  deliver His 
people.
