Sunday, July 5th 1998
Title : Moses' Staff and the Cross
Scripture Reading : 1Co 1:17-19

  (part 1) Today, I will deliver a message entitled "Moses' Staff and the Cross." 
The Israelites were delivered from Egypt by the guidance of Moses. They were so joyful, for they were freed from 430 years of slavery. On their way to the land flowing with milk and honey, they got to the Red Sea. The sea blocked them so they hesitated without finding the way to go forward. All of a sudden, Pharaoh pursued them with his army to capture them. Now the Israelites might drown in the Red Sea or they might be captives so they grieved and cried out, "Moses, was it because there were no graves in Egypt that you brought us to the desert to die?" 
  Then Moses prayed to the Lord and He said, "Raise your staff and stretch out your hand over the sea to divide the water."As soon as Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, the waters were divided by the mighty power of God. After the sea was divided, dry land appeared between the waters. All the Israelites went through the sea on dry ground safely. Yet the Egyptian army who followed the Israelites drowned because the waters went back to their places. 
  In our lives, we also have the Red Sea in our hearts. All the descendants of Adam and Eve had the Red Sea in their hearts when they were born. How can we go through this Red Sea and get to the salvation in safety? Where is the staff of Moses for us? In order to divide this Red Sea in us and let us get to the salvation, Jesus Christ hung on the cross. Just as God gave Moses a rod, so He gives us the cross today. As the rod of Moses worked with the authority and power of God, so the cross in our hands will divide the Red Sea in our hearts with His power.

  First, we have the Red Sea of sin in our hearts. When we were born, we had the Red Sea of sin in our hearts. There is no way for us to cross the Red Sea of sin. All the people are in despair because of the Red Sea of sin. There are their past and present sins in the Red Sea. The awful power of sin is moving in our hearts like waves.
  Romans 3:10-12 says, "As it is written: 'There is no one righteous, not even one; there is no one who understands, no one who seeks God. All have turned away, they have together become worthless; there is no one who does good, not even one.'"
  Romans 3:23 also says, "For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God." 
  Therefore, who can help us go through the Red Sea of sin and get to the beautiful land of forgiveness and righteousness? God has given a staff to divide the Red Sea; that is the cross. If we take the cross of Jesus Christ, the sea of sin is divided and the way of forgiveness and righteousness will be opened wide. We have no power to divide the Red Sea of sin. Nothing such as good deed, moral life, decision, resolution, and training can divide the Red Sea of sin. But if we have the cross on which Jesus was crucified and He destroyed sin and judged its power, the Red Sea of sin will be divided for sure.
  Hebrews 10:19-20 states, "Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the Most Holy Place by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way opened for us through the curtain, that is, His body." Jesus destroyed the power of sin by His body torn apart and His blood shed on the cross. There is no power to divide the Red Sea of sin other than the cross. If we accept the cross of Jesus Christ, it will divide the sea of sin and destroy its power and allow us to enter the land of forgiveness and righteousness.
  Romans 3:24 says, "Justified freely by His grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus." We have sinned and must be abandoned, but if we hold the cross in our hearts, the sea of sin will be divided. The Red Sea of sin will be divided so that we can enter the beautiful land of forgiveness and righteousness. Therefore, we should know that this cross has God's tremendous power of forgiveness and righteousness like the staff in the hand of Moses.
 
  Secondly, there are worldly things overflowing in our hearts.
  The scripture says, "The world belongs to the devil." 
  1 John 2:16 tells us, "For everything in the world--the cravings of sinful man, the lust of his eyes and the boasting of what he has and does--comes not from the Father but from the world." The boasting, lust and greed of this world are overflowing in our hearts. We look so worldly. All the things like the radio, 
TV, the newspaper and the magazine are filled with worldly things, but not with heaven. God can't be found, but only the world. Where do we get the great power with which we can divide the Red Sea of the world and go to God for His Spirit to come into us so that we may sit, stand, live, die and enjoy with Him? How can we divide the Red Sea of the world that comes to us so strongly? If we take the cross of Jesus Christ, the Red Sea of the world will be divided. 
  Then the Holy Spirit of God will come into our hearts and we will become God's children so we can call Him Abba Father and live with Him together. The Holy Spirit comes to us and opens our spiritual eyes so that we can recognize God who created the whole universe and accept Jesus as our Savior and enjoy God's grace as His children. All these ways are opened by the cross. There is nothing that removes the world and offers the heaven where we can dwell with God, the Father, Jesus, His Son and the Holy Spirit; but the cross. That's why the cross is so precious that it can bring the heaven into our hearts through the Holy Spirit. Who can defeat the world? Who can drive out the world? Who can divide the sea of the world? Nothing but the cross. If we hold the cross of Jesus Christ, God will work in the market and in the den of robbers. Because the cross is the powerful staff that divides the world and brings the heaven.

  Thirdly, we have the Red Sea of disease in our hearts. From birth, we have to fight with disease until we die. We are in the Red Sea of sickness. We have spiritual sickness. We have both unbelief and disobedience in our hearts. So many people are struggling in the spiritual sickness. They are the slaves to unbelief and disobedience. They are suffering from mental diseases: uneasiness, anxiety, fear, despair, envy, resentment, jealousy, hatred, lust and debauchery. They have various kinds of physical sickness. 
  Who can divide the Red Sea of disease in our spirit, soul, and body? Training, morality, more education, more regulations, or more judgment?  Not at all. If we hold the cross in our hearts, the Red Sea of sickness will be divided. The unbelief and disobedience will be divided. Uneasiness, anxiety, despair, envy, resentment, jealousy, lust, hatred and debauchery will be divided. Physical pain and mental problems will be divided. There is no power that divides the Red Sea of sickness in our hearts, but the cross. If we hold the cross in our hearts and pray, the power of God will be revealed and it will divide the Red Sea of disease so that we can cross over to the beautiful land of healing and joy.
  In Matthew 8:17, we read, "This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah: 'He took up our infirmities and carried our diseases.'" Jesus took up our infirmities and carried our sicknesses through the cross.
  According to 1 Peter 2:24, "He Himself bore our sins in His body on the tree, so that we might die to sins and live for righteousness; by His wounds you have been healed." Hence, the Red Sea of diseases of our spirit, soul and body will disappear and we will go over to the land of health and joy. It can be done only through the cross. If we hold a powerful staff of the cross in our hearts, Christ will show His salvation and divide the Red Sea of disease and deliver us to the beautiful land of healing and joy.

  Fourth, we have the Red Sea of curse and failure. After Adam was expelled from Eden, there came curse and failure between his descendants and Eden. Eden was a beautiful place that God had prepared for the mankind. There was no sin, hatred, disease, curse, nor death. It was filled with prosperity in spirit, soul, and body. There were no worries like what to eat, what to wear and what to drink. For God prepared everything for Adam, Eve, and their descendants in Eden. However, since Adam and Eve disobeyed God to be the master like Him and were driven out, curse have been between what God prepared and the mankind. No one can cross over this earth to the place that God has prepared. No one can reach the blessing hand of God. Because there is the Red Sea. In spite of endless efforts, man can't go through the sea of curse and trial.
  Job 5:7 says, "Yet man is born to trouble as surely as sparks fly upward." Who can let us cross over the Red Sea of curse, trial and poverty to hold the hand of God in heaven? If we have the cross of Jesus in our hearts, the sea of curse will be divided.
  We read in Galatians 3:13-14, "Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written: 'Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree.' He redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus, so that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit." This cross contains the authority of Jesus Christ. There is a great power in the cross to divide the Red Sea of curse 
and enable us to cross over to the land of Abraham's blessing. 
  That's why in the history an individual and a nation who held the cross were prosperous and victorious, but those who rejected the cross were ruined. Therefore, the cross is like the crossroad where we can decide whether we can hold the hand of God or not. That's why today if we have the cross deeply in our hearts and pray, the Red Sea of curse, poverty and failure in us will be divided. (part 2)Recently, the Red Sea such as IMF crisis, Which we cannot cross by ourselves, is in our hearts and Korea. The cross of Jesus alone can devide that Red Sea. Only when we get together before the cross, repent our sins, pray and cry out to God, this Red Sea of IMF crisis will be divided. Then we will reach the beautiful land of Canaan that the Lord has prepared.
  John 10:10 says, "The thief come only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full."
  As it is written in 1 Corinthians 2:9, "No eye has seen, no ear has heard, no mind has conceived what God has prepared for those who love Him." 
  We read in Matthew 11:28, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest."
  Hebrews 11:40 tells us, "God had planned something better for us."  The Lord is calling us to come to this prepared land. There is no way for us to enter the beautiful land that the Lord has prepared for us other than the way of the cross. If we keep the cross in our hearts, repent of our sins, rely on the cross and pray to God, the Red Sea of curse and failure will be divided and we will cross over to the beautiful land that Jesus has prepared.

  Fifth, we have the Red Sea of death. There is no one in this world, who went through the sea of death and absolute nothingness. For man is doomed to die. Since all the people committed sins, they must die for them. Yet there is only one who crossed over the sea of death. Our Lord, Jesus of Nazareth, came and divided the Red Sea of death by dying and rising.  He has poured the authority and power to divide the Red Sea of death upon the cross.
  In 1 Corinthians 15:3-4, it is written, "Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures and He was buried and He was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures." Therefore, if we take the cross upon which the authority and power of Jesus was poured, the sea of death in us will be divided and the way toward heaven will be opened widely.
  In John 14:6 Jesus said, "I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me." The cross is the very way for us to get to the eternal kingdom of heaven. Jesus didn't only say, "I am the way and the truth and the life," but also He said, "I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even though he dies; and 
whoever lives and believes in me will never die." 
  Therefore, the cross of Jesus is the way of resurrection and eternal life. We have the Red Sea of death, but if we boldly hold the cross of Christ in our hearts, through the cross the power of God will be performed by breaking the power of death and dividing the Red Sea of death, then a beautiful way of glorious heaven will be opened brightly for us. The Lord didn't send us to the world with any power.
  When Moses said to God who appeared in the thistles at Mt. Horeb, "I can't. I have no memory. I don't speak so well that I can't preach your message. I can't deliver the Israelites," God asked him, "What do you have in your hand?" Moses said, "It's a staff." The Lord endowed that staff with authority and power. Though Moses said he was 80 without any power, God sent him to Egypt with a powerful staff so that he might have Pharaoh surrender and deliver the three million Israelites from 430 years of slavery in Egypt. With the staff of power, he divided the Red Sea and performed signs and wonders and led the Israelites through the wilderness for 40 years into the land flowing with milk and honey.        Today we are weak and say, "I can do nothing. I know nothing. I am ignorant."  But that's all right. If we come to the Lord, He will give us a powerful staff of God, that is, the staff of the cross. The Lord will give us the cross. If we depend on that cross, we can get into the land of milk and honey that the Lord prepared and enter the place of fivefold gospel and threefold blessings. We can't do that with our power might but if we have the cross of Jesus Christ in ours hearts, through the cross something incredible will take place. The Red Sea of sin will be divided and righteousness and forgiveness will be overflowing. If we have the cross, the worldly thing like hatred will disappear. Where the Red Sea of the world is divided by the cross, there will appear the heavenly kingdom, God's love, His Spirit, holiness, and God Himself. If we hold the cross in our hearts, it will destroy all the worldly things like the power and authority of the devil and divide the Red Sea of disease and offer us healing and joy. 
  Only the cross can divide the Red Sea of despair, failure and curse and lead us into the land of milk and honey as a powerful staff of God. If we count on the staff of the cross, death, Hades and hell will go away. The Red Sea of death will be divided and instead there will be a bright way toward the kingdom of heaven. For it was on the cross that Jesus Christ became a sacrifice for our sake. Perfect God came as a man and lived on this earth for 33 years and became an offering on the cross in place of us. He became a sin offering for our sins against God, a guilt offering for our sins against people, a burnt offering for our infirmities, a fellowship offering for the relationship between God and us and a thank offering for the glory and praise of God by breaking His body and shedding His blood on the cross. The cross on which Jesus shed His blood symbolizes the great power of salvation. 
  Therefore we should kneel down under the cross, repent of our sins, hold the cross in our hearts, and pray depending on it. We can't find the altar for prayer somewhere else. As the Israelites prayed at the temple of Solomon in Jerusalem in times of the old testament, so today we should pray at the cross. Although we have wisdom, intelligence and insight, we can't come up to God with them. No matter how well we may speak, God won't hear us. If we come to the cross of Jesus, put it in our hearts, and pray trusting it in the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ, the Red Sea will be divided. Then God will reveal Himself like the dazzling sun. If we pray with the cross in our hearts in the name of the Lord, we will enjoy good health and all will go well with us, even as our soul is getting along well. It won't be done by our power and might, but by the power of the Holy Spirit through the cross. Therefore, we are not weak, abandoned, lonely, nor powerless any longer. That's because we have a powerful staff of the cross. The cross is always with us. When we rely on the cross and cry out at the altar, the Red Sea of any enemies will be divided and the glorious way of salvation will be opened for us. That's why the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is God's power and authority. So we must not stay away from the message of the cross, nor must we forsake it. Please be sure to take the cross in your hearts always. When you pray, please kneel down before the cross, looking to it and cry out in the name of Jesus, depending on it. Then the heaven will be yours and the authority of God will come to you. The divine grace will be overflowing in you. Though the devil may come to you, he will flee in seven ways and the grace of God will be revealed clearly. 

  (part 3)-prayer-
  Holy and glorious our Father, God. Thank you for giving us the cross of power as You gave Moses the staff of power, even though we are powerless, incapable and stammer. As long as we are near Jesus' cross, we shall not be destroyed. When we have the cross in our hearts, the Red Sea of grudge comes to be divided. If follow Jesus' cross, we can enter Your glorious Kingdom which You have prepared for us. The way of Jesus' cross is knowledge and power of God. The cross is Jesus' ability to save us. Thus, help us count on the cross, praise it, take it up on our backs, and follow You.
  Today, right now, help us have the cross in our hearts so that we may cross the Red Sea of sin, earthly world, disease, curse and death. Help us walk into the fully opened way which You have prepared so that we may enjoy good health and that all may go well with us, even as our soul is getting along well. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.  
