Sunday, September 13th 1998
Title : Accusation
Scripture Reading : Rev 12:10-12

  The Bible says in 1 Peter 5:8-9, "Be self-controlled and alert.  your enemy devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Resist him, standing firm in the faith, because you know that your brothers throughout the world are under- going the same kind of sufferings." The devil makes every effort to accuse and destroy the people of God. Because his accusation, a great number of Christians have been sacrificed and are being sacrificed now. Why does the devil intend to accuse, steal, kill and destroy us?

  First, the devil didn't accuse man but God at the beginning. The devil resisted God, who created heaven and earth and everything, and accused Him. The devil was called Satan, which means a resister. He is a accuser, slanderer and interrupter. The devil does not hesitate to resist, accuse and slander God and His people anywhere. First, we can see the devil accuse God before Adam and Eve at Eden. God created Eden and placed Adam and Eve there. He told them to eat all the fruit in the garden but the fruit of good and evil. He said to them, "If you eat the fruit, you must die." The devil in the form of a serpent came to Eve and said, "Did God really tell you not to eat all the fruit in the garden?" If God had not allowed them to eat all the fruit, they must have died. In fact, God told them to eat all the fruit but the fruit of good and evil. 
But see the devil slander God. The devil said, "Did God really tell you not to eat all the fruit? Then Eve answered, "God told us to eat all the fruit except the fruit of good and evil which you should not eat nor touch, for you may die." Her answer was not right. Because God didn't say, "You may die," but "You will surely die." Then the devil again laughed at God, saying, "When you eat the fruit of good and evil, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God." Then He will be jealous of you." The devil accused God so that Adam and Eve might get sorry for Him. Therefore, Eve disobeyed God and took the fruit of good and evil and handed it to her husband. Finally they died in spirit and were driven out from God and became slaves to the devil. In the Bible we can see that the devil strongly wanted to accuse and destroy people. Take Job for an example.
  Job 1:6-11 says, "One day the angels came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came with them. The Lord said to Satan, 'Where have you come from?' Satan answered the Lord, 'From roaming through the earth and going back and forth in it.' Then the Lord said to Satan, 'Have you considered my servant Job? There is no one on earth like him; he is blameless and upright, a man who fears God and shuns evil.' 'Does Job fear God for nothing?' Satan replied. 'Have you not put a hedge around him and his household and everything he has? You have blessed the work of his hands, so that his flocks and herds are spread throughout the land. But stretch out your hand and strike everything he has, and he will surely curse you to your face.'" When Satan came to the Lord, He already knew that Satan was going to slander Job and defended him, "There is no one like him; he is blameless and upright, a man who shuns evil." Then Satan retorted, "How does Job dare to fear God for nothing? Have you not blessed the work of his hands so that he night have prosperity? Take all the possessions from him, then he will surely curse you. Job is not good but bad by nature. He pretended to be good to be blessed by God. If he face any disaster, he will curse God and turn away." Satan awfully accused Job. God wanted to prove that Job was good and said, "Very well, then, everything he has is in your hands, but on the man himself do not lay a finger." Therefore, Job's seven sons and three daughters died, his 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 oxen and 500 donkeys were taken. Take a look at Satan's accusation. He made every effort to accuse Job to steal, kill and destroy. Then God let Satan test Job so as to prove that he was upright. However, Job didn't grudge against God. He confessed, "The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away, may the name of the Lord be praised." Job worshipped God and didn't curse Him.
  Satan slandered again in Job 2:1-6, "On another day the angels came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came with them to present himself before him. And the Lord said to Satan, 'Where have you come from?' Satan answered the Lord, 'From roaming through the earth and going back and forth in it.' Then the Lord said to Satan, 'Have you considered my servant Job? There is no one on earth like him; he is blameless and upright, a man who fears God and shuns evil. And he still maintains his integrity, though you incited me against him to ruin him without any reason.' " The Lord certainly defended Job, "Though Job lost everything he had, he maintained his integrity and he didn't curse me. It was not because of his possessions that he trusted in me." Then Satan replied, "Skin for skin!" "A man will give all he has for his own life. But stretch out your hand and strike his flesh and bones, and he will surely curse you to your face." The Lord said to Satan, "Very well, then, he is in your hands; but you must spare his life." Now look at Satan's accusation. Job praised God for nothing so Satan asked God to strike Job's flesh and bones, for Job would surely curse God and turn away. God proved that Job didn't leave Him even in any troubles and that the Satan's accusation was wrong. Job also turned out that man should not have believed in God for his selfishness. Satan stroke Job.
  We can see that in Job 2:7-10, "So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord and afflicted Job with painful sores from the soles of his feet to the top of his head. Then Job took a piece of broken pottery and scraped himself with it as he sat among the ashes. His wife said to him, 'Are you still holding on to your integrity? Curse God and die!' He replied, 'You are talking like a foolish woman. Shall we accept good from God, and not trouble?' In all this, Job did not sin in what he said." Satan got into Job's wife and attacked him. His wife said, "Are you still holding on to your integrity? Curse God and die!" Satan wanted Job to curse God but Job didn't so Satan attacked him through his wife's mouth. Yet Job didn't yield. As a result, Satan was totally defeated. For Job kept his integrity before God and praised Him. Likewise, we can see how severely the devil accuses God and His people.

  Secondly, the devil even accused Jesus. He slandered Jesus with something to eat after He fasted for forty days and nights.
  Matthew 4:3-4 says, "The tempter came to Him and said, 'If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread.' Jesus answered, 'It is written: 'Man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God.'" The devil slandered Jesus, "You are not the Son of God. So do not act like the Son of God. If you are the Son of God, prove that. Tell these stones to become bread." What a terrible accusation it it! The devil insisted that Jesus was not the Son of God. He said, to Jesus, "You are telling a lie. How do you dare to say that you are the Son of God? If you are the Son of God, prove that by making these stones bread ." Then Jesus sternly said, "Man doesn't live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God." He clearly showed His position to the devil on the basis of God's word. Then the devil led Jesus Christ to the high tower and said, "If you are the Son of God,  throw yourself down so that God may command His angels concerning you and they may lift you up in their hands and you may not strike your foot against a stone. Are you not the Son of God? If you are the Son of God, He will not send His angels so that you may not strike your foot against a stone. Since you are not the Son of God, you hesitate to jump down. You are a liar. You are not the Son of God. If you are, throw yourself down." Then Jesus said, "Do not put the Lord your God to the test." He didn't have to prove whether He was the Son of God or not. If He had tried to, He might have be defeated by the devil. For the devil intented to test Jesus with the worldly power.
  Matthew 4:8-10 states, "Again, the devil took Him to a very high mountain and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendor. 'All this I give you,' he said, 'if you will bow down and worship me.' Jesus said to him, 'Away from me, Satan! For it is written: 'Worship the Lord your God, and serve Him only.' " The devil said to Jesus, "You are not a king but you say that you are the king of the world. It is I who can make you a king, so bow down to me and worship me, and I will surely give you the splendor of this world." Yet Jesus strongly worshipped and served God only. When Jesus resisted the devil firmly standing on the word, he went away. If Jesus protested, "Why don't you know that I am the Son of God?" He must have been defeated. When Satan accuses us, we must stand on the word, otherwise, we would be ruined. For three and a half years on the earth, the devil kept following Jesus and accusing Him through high priests, Pharisees, Saducees and teachers of the law. Jesus was accused that He was going to be the king of the Jews against the Roman emperor and Jesus was sentenced to death at the court of Pilate and was crucified at Golgotha. The devil slandered Jesus so that He might be crucified. After they accused Jesus to be crucified, their nation was ruined.
  In this way, the devil continued to accuse Jesus. Since the devil accused God and Jesus, you must not think that he will not slander you. The devil thinks of you as dust and accuses you before God every day to steal, kill and destroy you regarding your conscience and neighbor. That's why the Lord said, "Be self-controlled and alert. Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Resist him, standing firm in the faith." An European Catholic priest was slandered. A single woman Catholic of his church brought a baby with her and said before all the church members, "This is the priest's baby. The priest father preaches the gospel in the holy garment, but in fact, he had a secret relation with me and we have a baby now. This is his baby." She gave the baby to the priest father and left. She was totally telling a lie. However, the father couldn't excuse himself. Right at the moment, he took off his priest garment and disappeared and took care of the baby. When the baby became 20 years old, the woman appeared before the priest father and knelt and said, "Please, forgive my sin. My unbeliever neighbors gave me a lot of money and asked me to accuse you. I accepted their suggestion because of money. I ruined your life." At last she confessed her sin in front of all the church members and the priest was restored to his position. Since the devil comes to steal, kill and destroy us, he tries every scheme to destroy us. Moreover, he accuses us day and night. He never sleeps and accuses us before God. He slanders to God, "This is such a bad man. You must not answer his prayer, nor help him. He must destroy." The devil accuses us in every way. What should we do to defeat the devil when he accuses us? We should pray to God who judges with justice. When we are slandered, if we makes excuses, we will be defeated. There is God who has justice. Because we have God who knows everything, we have to pray to Him.
  Romans 8:31 tells us, "What, then, shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us?"
  Romans 8:33-34 again says, "Who will bring any charge against those whom God has chosen? It is God who justifies. Who is he that condemns? Christ Jesus, who died--more than that, who was raised to life--is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us." Therefore, we should earnestly pray to God who judges with justice. If we try excuses to those who slander us, we will be destroyed. Since God has justice, He always judges with it. We also cry out to the blood  of Jesus.
  According to 1 John 3:8 says, "He who does what is sinful is of the devil, because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the devil's work." Since Jesus shed His blood on the cross, He defeated and destroyed all the authorities and powers of the devil. Jesus' blood has the power to make the devil's accusation powerless.
  That's why the Bible says, "The devil was defeated by the blood of the lamb and the word." Therefore, you must continue to speak of the blood of Jesus Christ, "Please, cover us with Jesus' blood. Protect me with Jesus' blood. I plead with His blood. Help me win with Christ's blood." Because of the devil's accusation, we face various kinds of misfortunes and trials. Whenever we pray, we should bring Jesus' blood before God and say, "Lord, please cover me with Jesus' blood. Take care of me and be with me with His blood today." You should pray depending on Christ's blood without ceasing day after day. For Jesus defeated the devil and his accusation on the cross. He didn't defeat the devil for His sake but for ours. Therefore, Jesus' blood works in our lives, in particular in our daily lives. Though we do wrong each other, Jesus' blood has paid for that. Though we are slandered by the devil, we should insist that Jesus' blood has paid for our sin and we don't have to be accused. Since the blood of Jesus protects us, we can boldly stand before God and we will not be judged by Him. No matter what the enemy, the devil, may slander us, it will be crushed before Jesus' blood. The devil can never resist the blood of Jesus. Therefore, we should pray, "Lord, cover me and hold me with Jesus' blood, and help me destroy the accusation of the devil." We should also stand firm on the word of God. Do not be discouraged because of accusation. When you are slandered, you may be depressed and say, "What's happening to me?" However, you should not be upset.
  The Bible says, "Because he loves me,  I will rescue him; I will protect  him, for he acknowledges my name. He will call upon me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him." We should stand on this word. If we love God, He will rescue us. He will protect us, for we acknowledge His name. When we call upon God, He will defend us and deliver us in trouble. Therefore, you must not be disappointed standing firm on the word of God. There is always the devil's accusation in trail and hardship. You must not be frustrated. If necessary, we should defend ourselves with boldness and then wait until God delivers us. When you are  slandered, you have to wait before God. He never fails to bring you a victory. He is sure to destroy the accusation. We need to the proper and right criticism and estimation for our promotion and growth. Yet, if we speak ill of our neighbors with negative and false rumor to kill them, we will become the devil' instrument. For we will be destroyed with the devil if we work as his instrument. The devil keeps on slandering us toward God. Unless we defeat his accusation, we will face troubles and trials. If we become his instrument, we will be destroyed and driven out with him. May you overcome the accusation and not become its instrument but only rely on Jesus' blood and live positively, actively and creatively and love your neighbor as yourselves. If we love the Lord our God with our whole mind, will and heart and pray for our neighbor with the love of God, we will be free from the heavy snare of the accusation. 
