March 8th.1998
Title : I Am the Good Shepherd
Scripture Reading : John 10 : 11 - 16
 
  I would like to deliver a message titled, " I am the good shepherd."
The fundamental reason why we face this economic crisis is because leaders and the individuals of our country have no ownership mentality. Everyone tries his best to care for his body, home and property. But he is not interested in others' Our old saying says "You should be an owner wherever you go." Jesus says that when the hired shepherd sees the wolf coming, he abandons the sheep and runs away. In other words, he has no ownership mentality and is not responsible for his sheep. Yet the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. For he is their owner. Jesus said, "I am a true shepherd and true owner and I lay down my life for the sheep." Jesus is the good and true shepherd and we are His sheep. 

  First, Jesus is the good shepherd. The good shepherd should take good care of the sheep. He has to feed the sheep and let them drink enough.
  It is written in John 6:35, "Then Jesus declared, 'I am the bread of life. He who comes to Me will never go hungry, and he who believes in Me will never be thirsty.'"
The good shepherd is he who satisfies our need for nourishment. Korean president is the shepherd for the korean people. Politicians are our shepherds. He, who fully satisfies the needs of the people and provide comfortable lives, can become people's shepherd. Jesus made the ranch for His sheep by suffering troubles on the cross. In the ranch Jesus made, we can enjoy the sweet things in life and the living water which makes our spirit and heart fresh.
  John 10:10-11 says, "The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep." Since Jesus laid His life on the cross, by His blood He made a pasture where we can eat, drink and live. What is the pasture Christ made under the cross?
Jesus made a pasture of forgiveness and righteousness. There we all can be forgiven and righteous. The Lord has made a pasture under the cross where we can be reconciled to God and become His children. He made a family pasture where by His blood we can be close to God and call Him "Abba, Father through the Holy Spirit and the Father can call us His own children. If we come under the cross, the Lord has made a pasture which gives us healing and life. Since He carried away our infirmities and sicknesses, the pasture of healing and life has been made there. Therefore we can go there, pray, and be healthy by healing and life there. Our Lord made a pasture of blessing and prosperity under the cross. Since Jesus bore curses, our thorns and thistles, poverty and trials for us there, the Lord has made a pasture where there would be blessing and prosperity. If we worship the Lord, have faith, go to the pasture and pray, curse will go out from us and God's blessing will be upon us. Our Lord has made a pasture of eternal life under the cross. Our Lord eliminated death and hell and gave us heaven and eternal life in the pasture. The Lord has made a pasture where we can eat under the cross due to His blood. Besides, there overflows living water like a river in the pasture. The Lord said, "If anyone is thirty, let him come to me and drink, then streams of living water will flow from within him." Hence, when we come before Jesus as we repent and cry out in prayers, Jesus fills us with the stream of living water through the Holy Spirit. Likewise, the good shepherd raises the sheep well. Our Lord is the good shepherd for He laid down His life for the sheep, making the ranch of gospel under the cross and giving us living water, the Holy Spirit.

  Secondly, the good shepherd never makes his sheep go astray. He guides his sheep and cares for them with a rod and a staff. 
  John 10:4 reads, "When he has brought out all his own, he goes on ahead of them, and his sheep follow him because they know his voice." An American man traveled in Middle East Asia and saw lots of sheep follow their shepherd by his word. He said to the shepherd giving money, "Please, lend me your robe and staff. When you yell, the sheep follow you. Please let me do that." He wore the robe of the shepherd and took his staff and imitate, then 
all the shepherd fled away. No one followed him. So he asked, "I wore your clothes and had 
your staff and called the sheep. Why did they run away?" Then the shepherd said, "those sheep have been with me for a long time and they recognize my voice but not your voice. The sick sheep may follow you but healthy sheep won't. If a shepherd call his sheep, they know their shepherd's voice so they all follow him. Because Jesus is the shepherd who laid down His life for us and knows us so well and whom we love so much, we can recognize His voice and follow Him. Jesus leads us with His word and Spirit or instructs us with judgment and rebuke. If we are to find a way in a new city, we have to look at the map or ask a person who knows the city well. While living in this world, we should look at the map to find our way. The Bible is the correct map. If we keep its word, we will never go astray. Apart from its word, if we depend on our own wisdom, knowledge and intelligence, we may fall down to the cliff. Therefore with the map of the Bible, we have to ask the Holy Spirit who knows our lives well. Then He will guide us correctly. Our Lord will lead us to life but not to death; to justice but not to injustice and corruption; to peace but not to fear and anxiety; to blessings but not to death. 
  Romans 8:13-14 says, "If you live according to the sinful nature, you will die; but if by the Spirit you put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live, because those who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God." Jesus leads us through the Spirit of God day by day. The Holy Spirit is with us every day and leads us through our hearts, thoughts, dreams and desires when we pray. You may think that you are abandoned like orphans, yet Jesus says, "I will not leave you as orphans but I will come to you soon. I will ask the Father and He will give you another Counselor to be with you forever." If you long for, read, meditate on the word of God and pray, the Spirit of God will lead you secretly and correctly through time and space. The Spirit of God will guide you in every step. The Bible says, "In all your ways acknowledge Him, and he will lead you." As the good shepherd does not make the sheep go astray, neither does our Lord, if we acknowledge, trust, depend on and follow Him. If we disobey the Lord without knowing His heart and do according to our will, we will face failure and disappointment. If we go wrong, the Lord, our shepherd, will judge us by beating with the staff to make us turn to the right way. 

  Thirdly, the shepherd delivers the sheep from danger. When there break out storms, flood, earthquake, fire and dangerous things, the shepherd will not run away. He will be with the sheep and rescue them. Yesterday, I saw a scene on TV. Amid the blazing fire, a young man commanded his wisdom, made a ladder and rescued children from fire. When we face dangerous situation, the Lord is with us and delivers us from the danger. 
  Psalm 91:15 states, "He will call upon me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him." We are suffering from economic trials. We just stand at the entrance of trials and we're not going through trials. We are in these great trouble and trial. However, the Bible says, "I will be with you in trouble." He is not only with us in blessing but also in trouble. The Bible says, "Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me." When you face trials and trouble, do not look at them only. When you lose your job and fail in your business, do not consider that situation only. For Jesus is there in that dark valley. He is our shepherd. The Bible says, "Call to me, I will answer you and tell you great and unsearchable things you do not know." When we suffer from trouble, it is the time for us to cry out to Jesus, our shepherd. Then he will surely reach out His hand and hold and lead us. Jesus will never pretend not to know us when we are in trouble. He will help us. Take a look at the Bible. When He was with His disciples in a boat, there broke out a storm and the boat was sinking. Then did Jesus leave them and went alone? No. When His disciples woke Him up saying, "Lord, Lord. We may drawn, He got up and rebuked winds and waves and made them quite and rescued His disciples. Today when we can't stand the waves of our lives, if we cry out to the Lord to wake up, He will make them subside. Jesus is not dead, but He is the Son of the living God. He is the same yesterday, today and forever. He will be with us to the end of the world. When Jesus' disciples were suffering from waves at night, He walked for His disciples on the water, didn't He? Even today, the Lord may come to you through miracles. 
  John 16:33 says, "I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble. But take heart! I have overcome the world." If we pray and live with our Lord, He will perform such a tremendous miracle. 
  A few days ago I had meal with the president of Regent University in America. He told me a story: his third son was very healthy and good at studying and sports. After he worked out, he was playing with his friends. As soon as he jumped on the chair, it broke down and its plank struck his head and he fainted at once. His father took him to the hospital. The son took an X-ray and examination and they found he had nothing hurt by the plank but such a great blood corpuscle in his brain that would have been burst after a month and he would have been blind or died. Yet God gave him that kind of situation so that he might have the operation and be cured. The president told me, "How kind our God is! My son looked well outwardly and was good at studying and sports. Yet he must have died of a blood corpuscle in his brain after a month. Thankfully God let us know that by making my son jump on the chair and get hurt so that he might take an X-ray for the brain problem to be found. At last my son was spared! I praise God!" Likewise, our Lord is deeply concerned about us. The Bible says, "The Lord counts the number of your hair." Therefore, you should not feel abandoned and frustrated. We easily look at our circumstances. Yet the Lord is with us invisibly. Although we can't see, hear, nor touch, the Lord is with us like wind. He is such a good shepherd that he'll never flee when the sheep are in danger, but he'll rescue them. 

  Fourth, the good shepherd protects the sheep from wild animals. David kept the sheep from a lion and a bear, didn't he? When he tended his father's sheep, if a lion drove a lamb away, he ran after the lion and took the lamb and killed the lion, and so did he to the bear. This tells us a good shepherd well. Jesus defeated the devil on the cross for us and disarmed him. The Lord said, "I have given you authority to trample on snakes and scorpions and to overcome all the power of the enemy; nothing will harm you." Today the Lord protects us from Satan and the demon. 
  John 10:29 reads, "My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all; no one can snatch them out of my Father's hand." Therefore, no one will snatch us from the Lord. Jesus is a good shepherd and keeps us from the devil and demons such as fierce beasts. The devil brings us uneasiness, anxiety, despair and curse in our mind. The devil steals, kills and destroys us. Through our bad circumstances the devil presses, disappoints us and tells us to die. Many people listen to the devil and kill, commit suicide, feel frustrated and give up their
lives. Since our shepherd, Jesus, destroyed the power and authority of the devil, we can boldly call to Jesus' name and He will set us free from the power of darkness so that we might have positive, active and creative hope in mind, even in terrible circumstances. The Lord tells us to pray, "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil." If we are tempted, the devil exploits our weakness and destroys us. So we need to pray to deliver us from the devil. All of us have weaknesses. The devil comes into us through those weaknesses and steals, kills, tears and bounds us. Therefore, we should pray, "Lead us not into temptation, deliver us from evil." Our Lord is with us as a good shepherd and makes us pray when the enemy comes to us, and He prepares a table before the enemy and helps us prosper more than the enemy and anoint us with the Holy Spirit so that our cup may overflow. Like this, Jesus keeps us all the time as a good shepherd. 

  Fifthly, the good shepherd brings the sheep back safely to the pen. The shepherd feeds the sheep all day and brings them back to the pen and counts them. If the sheep gets hurt, he cures it. If he loses any sheep, he goes back to the field to find it. Jesus said, "If a man has a hundred sheep and loses one of them. He will leave the ninety-nine in the pen and go after 
the lost sheep until he finds it." This is the heart of Jesus. He loves each of us so much. He 
does not want to lose even one. That's why our Lord cares for each of us and takes us to heaven. Until we enter the Father's home, Jesus will not leave but take care of us.         
  Revelation 7:16-17 says, "Never again will they hunger; never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat upon them, nor any scorching heat. For the lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd; He will lead them to springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes." Our Lamb, Jesus, will lead us to the heavenly throne where we can live forever without tears, anxiety, complaints, parting, mourning, losing and death. It is so awful just to imagine the sheep without the shepherd. Suppose that the sheep wander in the mountain and the field by themselves without the shepherd. There would be fierce wolves, lions and bears. The sheep may be caught and torn by them. The sheep without the shepherd may fall to a cliff or into a pit. The sheep without the shepherd can't go far. For the sheep have no strong horns, teeth and claws like fierce beasts. The shepherd
must protect them. Today those who do not believe in Jesus are like these sheep without the shepherd. They are thrown into this world so they may be injured and lose their lives anytime. However, Jesus is our good shepherd. He delivers us out of this abandoned world and He is the best shepherd to us until we go to heaven. Jesus is the good shepherd. Jesus delivers us from this deserted world and leads us into heaven. He is the good shepherd for us. He is not a false shepherd who flees at the sight of wolves. However, the Bible says, good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. Because Jesus is the good shepherd, He abandoned Himself and delivered us through the cross. As such, we must depend on Jesus.
  On whom can we depend in this IMF economic crisis? Can we all depend on politicians? Take a look at the National Assembly. Politicians in the National Assembly busy themselves finding faults with one another and squabbling. If a war broke out, they might be first in running for safety. They are a comical bunch. I am very sorry for saying this way, for the elder, who is in charge of the chairman in congress, is here. But how can we stand the politicians' behavior? Maybe, before long Korean people will stand up and expel them. People can't be patient any more. However, Jesus is good shepherd.
There is no one but Jesus who can carry the cross with us in this hard time. Only Jesus tore His body and shed His blood and died, but He never forsook nor left us, and He said, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest." Jesus who is the Lord over heaven and earth has all authorities. Now He is your shepherd and leads you ahead. May you all look to Him with all your hearts, minds, earnestness and lives and follow Him.  

  -Prayer- 
  Holy Father God of love, we are now facing stern reality. We are in despair and troubles. In this dark valley of death, we are confused on whom we could rely. Thank you for being with us in the time of this trouble. Jesus gave up the glory of heaven for us, came to this world, lived on earth for 33 years and was crucified on the cross shedding His Hood. By having done this, You have been with us. And we also thank you, who have all the authorities of heaven and earth, always turn your ears to our prayers. We thank that You, who said "After having led 99 sheep into the pen, the good shepherd goes out again to find the lost one", are in the midst of us.
  You said "If two or three come gathered in My name, there am I with them." O Lord, there are many sheep who are injured here. Some lost their jobs; some failed their businesses: some don't know how to live on. Some feel weary and uneasy. Please take us into your arms, extend Your hands and lay hold of your sheep. please put your hands on our heads and give us strength and boldness. feed us in Your ranch and take care of us. Show Your mercy and pity on Your people. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
