Sunday, August 9th, 1998
Title : Don't Look at the Wind
Scripture Reading : Matthew 14:24-33

After Jesus fed 5,000 men and tens of thousands of women and children at Bethsaida, at dusk He made His disciples get into the boat and go on ahead of him to Capernaum and He went up on a mountainside by Himself to pray. During the fourth watch of the night, Jesus saw His disciples still in the middle of the sea. Buffeted by the waves because the wind was against the boat, it didn't go forward though the disciples rowed the boat. In the middle of the sea, they were exhausted and weary. At that time, Jesus walked on the water to rescue them. The disciples thought that He was a ghost and cried out. But Jesus said, "Don't be afraid."Peter replied, "Lord, if it's you, tell me to come to you on the water." Jesus said, "Come." Then Peter boldly walked on the water, but when he saw the wind, he was afraid and beginning to sink, cried out, "Lord, save me!" Immediately Jesus came and rebuked him, "You of little faith. Why did you doubt?" When He climbed into the boat with Peter, the wind died down. Through this incident, we can get many lessons today.

  First, we can experience God's miracle only when we practice faith with boldness like Peter. Though we don't see, hear, nor touch anything, we must go forth on the basis of God's word. Then our faith will come true. Peter tried something great with faith. That's because the storm blew at the sea of Galilee at a pitch dark night and when he saw the Lord walking on the water, he boldly asked Him, "Lord, if it's you, tell me to come to you on the water." He may not have been the Lord but a ghost. Seamen say that if they see a ghost, their boat will be shipwrecked. What if he would not have been Jesus but a ghost? Yet Peter said, "Lord, if it is you. Tell me to come to you." Then Jesus told him to come. Jesus was walking on the water. The other disciples were terrified. But Peter trusted the Lord's word and began to walk on the water toward Him. He was the first man who walked on the water in the human history. When he walked depending on the Lord's word, even the water couldn't make him drown.
  Romans 10:17 says, "Consequently, faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word of Christ. When we only rely on the word and look at the Lord, we can experience the miracle in any circumstance. There were many disciples but only Peter experienced that miracle, for he went forward with faith. Faith can be said adventure. Faith without deeds is dead. When we boldly practice faith, depending on the Lord's word and only looking at Jesus, miracles and wonders will be performed. The Bible says, "If two or three gathered in my name, I will be in the midst of them." There are 50,000 churches and 12,000,000 Christians in our country. When we face the storm, the Lord won't leave us alone The Lord is now in this country. Therefore, what should we do? We should look to Jesus and rely on the word of God. We have to pray, "Lord, help us trample this storm and come toward you." We should seek the Lord and depend upon the His word. Peter relied on the word and walked on the stormy water toward the Lord. Today we should depend on the word of the Lord in order to trample this storm and go forward. We should not rely on our circumstances nor senses, but only the word of the Lord. We have many promised words of God. We have to always keep them in mind and think of them.
  We should always think of Galatians 3:13, "Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written: 'Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree.' He redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus." We should remember and keep this word in mind. Since Jesus was cursed for us, we are in the blessing of Abraham. We must strongly hold on to this word. The storm blows, but the word is not changed though the sky and the earth are crushed. Therefore, no matter how terrible the storm is, we should hold on to the word and live in it.
  Please, remember 2 Corinthians 8:9, "For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, so that you through His poverty might become rich." Since Jesus took away poverty for our sakes, we can be rich in Christ. We should strongly on to this fact. We don't have to care for our circumstances. The Lord has given us the word. He gave us the word in the storm, but not outside the storm. We should firmly take the word of the Lord in the wind and waves.
  According to 3 John 1:2 says, "Dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well." We must hold on to this word in our lives. In any situation, we must depend on the word that the Lord will make us prosper in everything including our soul and health. Above all, listen to the word that the Lord has given us.
  That is so gracious and comforting: Matthew 6:25-34, "Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink; or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more important than food, and the body more important than clothes? Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they? Who of you by worrying can add a single hour to his life? 'And why do you worry about clothes? See how the lilies of the field grow. They do not labor or spin. Yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all his splendor was dressed like one of these. If that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? So do not worry, saying, 'What shall we eat?' or 'What shall we drink?'or 'What shall we wear?' For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them. But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well. Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own." What is the lesson that the Lord gives us through this word? It means the Lord will take charge of what we eat, drink, and wear. It also means that in any circumstance, God, who created heaven and earth and controls everything, will help us live on this earth. If we seek His kingdom and His righteousness, we are heavenly people and God will govern and manage us. God is not so powerless that He can't provide us with daily bread. Therefore, we should walk, only looking to Jesus.
  In Hebrews 12:2, "Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith." When Peter looked to Jesus, remembering His word, he could walk on the stormy water and wind. If we always meditate on Jesus' word and just look to Him, we can overcome any trials. Therefore, you must not be afraid and dismayed. Secondly, while Peter was walking on the water, he saw the wind and was afraid and began to sink. He took a wrong choice. When he started to walk, there were wind and waves. He decided to just walk with the Lord's word in mind. But while walking, he had a wrong choice. He didn't look to the Lord and His word but looked down at the wind and waves. He didn't choose faith but sense. Then immediately he changed to the one of sense, not of faith. When he looked to the Lord with His word, he strongly and boldly walked, expecting miracles. But when he abandoned the word and the Lord, he was afraid of the wind and waves. Therefore, the Lord rebuked him, "You of little faith. Why did you doubt?" If you do not have the word, you will have little faith. If you do not look to the Lord but depend on your sense, you will doubt. Only when you read the word, you will have faith, and when you look to the Lord, you will not doubt. When Peter forgot the Lord and His word, he doubted and was afraid. If you are afraid, you will have problems. Fear will take away our faith in Jesus and remove miracles.
  We read in 1 John 4:18, "There is no fear in love. But perfect love drives out fear, because fear has to do with punishment. The one who fears is not made perfect in love." If we look to the Lord and think of His word and the love of the Lord is in our heart and we love the Lord, all fear will be driven out. When Jesus who made heaven and earth is with us and He loves us, how can we fear? When we don't look to Jesus without His word, fear will come into us and have to do with punishment. Fear must bring punishment.
  Job says in Job 3:25, "What I feared has come upon me; what I dreaded has happened to me." If we fear and dread, the devil will make it come true. If we are afraid of lung disease, we will have it. If we fear cancer, we will have it. If we fear perishing, we will perish. If we are afraid of failure we will fail. If we fear an accident we'll have it. Fear has to do with punishment. If we have fear in heart, we are far from faith and the love of the Lord. Therefore if we have fear, we should have the love of Christ again by repent and we should have faith again by taking His word. We must leave fear at once. If not, fear will come to our bodies and lives. When Peter was not afraid, he walked on the water, but when he feared, he began to sink. What He feared happened to him. Yet the word of Jesus never changes though the sky and the earth disappear. The wind is changeable but the word of the Lord will be forever. Therefore though we can't see, hear, nor touch anything, we should stand on the word and look to only Jesus. Though the world would abandon us, Jesus won't do. He shed blood on the cross to save us. He paid penalty for our sins, for He loves you and think of you as precious. That's why we should stand on the word, look to the Lord and we must not fear the wind. We should not turn our eyes from Jesus. It is good for you to come to church today, for the Lord said that we should gather. If two or three gather together the fire of faith begins to burn. It's nice of you to come today. We have to encourage one another with faith in our lives. We also should not stop meditating on the word, for it is the rock on which we can stand in trouble. Therefore, we should always read, think, and meditate on the word so that it may influence our soul. And also you have to pray without ceasing.
  In Psalm 50:15, "Call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you will honor me." When you continue to face troubles, ask the Lord for help, then He will come to us. And we should think positively. You should not think and say negatively. Negative things are all around you though you don't think or say them. If we look around, we can easily see the negative things and they take place often. We don't have to accept them. Since we are the people of heaven, we should think and speak positively according to the word. Though we can't see, hear, nor touch, it is good. Though our houses were flooded and we lost everything, it is good. Though we are surrounded by those negative things, we don't have to accept them in our hearts. Even in those situations, we must stand on Jesus and His word. What does the Lord say? He says, "In all things God works for the good of those who love Him, who have been called according to His purpose." Although it rains and the wind blows and our houses are flooded and we lose our possessions, If we take them with faith, the Lord will work for the good of us through them. Therefore we should trust the word of the Lord, for He never tells a lie. We have to stand on His word. Therefore we should not say, "I can't, don't, I'm frustrated, I'm in despair." But we should always say, "I can, I will try," and avoid negative friends. Good friends will give you help, but bad friends do you harm. Negative friends who always complain and resent will never do you good. They give you useless thoughts in your hearts. What shall you do? If your neighbors throw their garbage in your yard, you never say "Thank you. Please, do it again." But you will say, "Why do you put away your garbage in my yard? I'll call the police" If your neighbor comes and throw away garbage such as negative, destructive, blaming, and insulting words into your hearts, you will take them, lose your faith, feel depressed, sad, and distressed. Your neighbor gives you trashes like negative things into your hearts through people. I wish you may not accept those things. Throw away the negative things and do not make negative friends. Leave your negative friends, for at last they will never give you any help. The source of our lives depends on God. We live looking down at the ground and looking up to the sky. We do not look at Chungryang River nor the level of Han River, but God who made heaven and earth.
  The Bible says, "Trouble, hardship, persecution, famine, nakedness, danger, or sword--in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us." Therefore, as long as we look to God, we should not look at the wind around us. No matter where the wind blows, either from your family or your neighbor, you must not look at it. I wish you may stand on the word and only look to Jesus.

  Thirdly, Peter drowned. He didn't look to the Lord but the wind and he was afraid and began to sink. He was in danger. Then Peter hurried to repent of his fault, "Lord, I almost die. Please rescue me." Peter confessed his wrong in a hurry, "Lord, I almost die, please save me." Peter repented of his wrong choice. Then the Lord rebuked him, "You of little faith. Why did you doubt?" This is for all of us. Since we forgot the word, we have little faith. Only if we hold the word, we can have faith, for faith comes from hearing the message and the message is heard through the word of Christ. If we doubt, that means we don't look to Jesus, but depend on our sense. If we rely on our sense by seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, and touching, we will doubt.
  James 1:6 tells us, "When he asks, he must believe and not doubt." Therefore if we fail in our Christian lives and we are sinking into trouble, trial, and flood, we must hurry to repent of our faults and turn to faith. We should confess our sins of neglecting the word and of rely on our senses more than the Lord. When Peter repented. the Lord took him into the boat and the wind died down. When we are sinking in the sea of failure and despair, we should confess our unbelief and disobedience. Man consists of spirit, soul, and body. When Adam and Eve were made at first, they were spiritual. They trusted the word of God and obeyed Him and live spiritually. Their wisdom was the means of spirit and their sense was just like a staff for a living. However, Adam and Eve fell and their spirit were dead and lost their belief and obedience to God. So they lived according to their wisdom, knowledge, understanding, means, ways and senses. Faith means spiritual life. Those who don't believe in the Lord can never live with faith. Because they are dead in spirit. But we who accepted Jesus as Savior are alive in spirit so we have to lead spiritual lives. We should live spiritually beyond physical lives. We should live with the word of God, faith and obedience. God is Spirit. Therefore those who live spiritually should accompany God. If the spirit of God comes, He makes something with nothing and quickens the dead, for the greatest power comes from the spirit. We must live spiritually. When we kneel, trust the word of God, pray and obey Him, the Holy Spirit works and we can walk with the Lord. When Peter drowned he repented of his human centered life and returned to spiritual life and looked to the Lord. Then the Lord came and rescued him. He didn't come out of water with his wisdom nor by swimming, but the Lord picked him up to the boat. Today we can't save ourselves with our physical power. Our wisdom and intelligence are too powerless. Yet the Holy Spirit comes upon us, He quickens the dead and makes something out of nothing. If we become spiritual, believe in Jesus, accept the word of God, pray and obey Him, His Spirit comes and solves all our problems and performs tremendous wonders and miracles. Only the Holy Spirit can move the clouds over there on the sky. We can't move them with our wisdom. Man is fundamentally a spiritual being. Since God is Spirit and man was created in the image of Him, man was made spiritually. Since Adam fell and died in spirit, man had to live in accordance with his wisdom and sense. That's why he has been nervous and afraid. But when we believe in Jesus, our spirit becomes alive so that we can call God our Father and accept Jesus as Savior and walk with the Holy Spirit. So we can live with God who is omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent. Spiritual life is the life of following the word of God and living with faith and obedience to produce miracles. Therefore if God is with us in the boat of our lives, all the waves will be quiet and we can get to our destination. The miracles of God will be performed. Now we seem to be in the boat on stormy water. Only when we stand on the word and look to the Lord and lead spiritual lives, we can overcome any circumstance, win, be blessed and get to our destination.
