Sunday, June 28th 1998
Title : The Master and The Servant
Scripture Reading : Lk 15:11-24

  The Lord says that a servant can't serve two masters and if so, he will regard one of them more valuable than the other, or disregard one more than the other. Suppose that there would be two masters in a household. There must be awful strife, enmity, and even violence. A household should have a master.
  Today's scripture tells us about the master and the servant. First, a father did farming with two sons and many servants in the country. For a long time the father was happy with his two sons and servants, farming well. No wonder the father owned, ruled, and managed the property of the farm and sons. Though the sons were the sons of the father, they worked as servants and served and obeyed the father as a master and the father made all the decisions, but the sons didn't. Before the sons leave their father, they should live as their father's solders and servants. By the way, the second son himself wanted to become a master instead of serving his father as a master.
  We read in Luke 15:11-12, "There was a man who had two sons. The younger one said to his father, 'Father, give me my share of the estate.' So he divided his property between them." Therefore, he could be out of the father and lead his own life as a master. The son didn't have to live under his father and decided to go to a far country. This is the story of our human being. God is our master. God was our master in the garden of Eden and He didn't have the same position as we. Therefore, Adam had to live as a servant in the land of God, the master. Though the son had to live as a servant to serve the master, the Father. The son couldn't decide anything by himself, but only the Father could. However, Adam and Eve wanted to be a master. They didn't serve the master but wished to be a master who could decide anything whether it was good or bad.
  Genesis 3:4-6 says, "'You will not surely die,' the serpent said to the woman. 'For God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.' When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye, and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it. She also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it." Likewise, they proclaimed they were a master and a mistress. They said, "Now we can make any decision by ourselves." Yet, there can't be two masters in the garden of Eden. They were driven out before God. They pretended to be a master in a far country.

  Secondly, let us see the life of the second son who became a master. When he became a master he left his father, the master, for a far country.
  Luke 15:13-14 states, "Not long after that, the younger son got together all he had, set off for a distant country and there squandered his wealth in wild living. After he had spent everything, there was a severe famine in that whole country, and he began to be in need." The son became a master and didn't have to be under his father because two masters can't live together. He left his father for a far country. He became a master, but he chose evil instead of good. He did everything evil wasting the possessions he received from his father. It was not long before he spent all he had. There came a severe famine in the country. He couldn't keep his life. Nor did he solve the problem of eating, wearing, and housing. Though he became a master, he couldn't manage his life by himself. Adam and Eve are like him. They abandoned God, their master, and came to the world to be a master and they chose evil not good. Thirdly, the second son realized a great thing as a failed master. He became a master, but when he found himself disqualified as a master, he felt miserable. He realized that the master, his father, was so great. His father was such a good master with love, mercy and kindness so he cared for his sons well and his servants with great kindness so the servants had enough food and his father didn't treat the servants harshly. He thought that his father was a very good master. Yet he failed as a master: he did something as a master but found him incapable of being a master and recognized his sin. He thought to himself, "I am not qualified to be a master because I have no ability. I have to repent of my sin and return home not as a master, a son, and a servant, but a slave. This is true repenting. If we repent, thinking we are a master and expecting others to respect us as a master, it is not true repenting. The father is a master and the son as a servant should serve, believe, and obey him.
  Luke 15:18-19 says, "I will set out and go back to my father and say to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me like one of your hired men.' So he got up and went to his father." This young man completely repented and decided not to pretend to be a master nor to be called a son but to ask his father to make him like one of his hired men and went to his father. This is true repenting.
  Psalm 51:17 says, "The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise." If we come to God with broken and contrite hearts, He will never forsake us. He will preciously use the heart broken, changed to a servant, and totally relying on God. Fourth, we can see the son broken go back to his father, the master. The son is broken in heart and returns as a servant. He decided not to be a son and a master but to be an obedient servant, accepting his father as the only master and went back to his father.
  Luke 15:20-24 tells us, "While he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion for him; he ran to his son, threw his arms around him and kissed him. The son said to him, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, 'Quick! Bring the best robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let's have a feast and celebrate. For this son of mine was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found.' So they began to celebrate." When the son became a servant with contrite heart, his father welcomed him. The son was totally different from the time when he left his father. He was depressed without any pride, weeping before his father, and said, "I don't deserve to be called your son. I won't be a master any longer. Now I return as one of your hired men. Father! Please accept me." The father already understood his son. Since the father recognized his son as a true servant, he loved the son greatly. Only the father can be a master in a household. No one can be a master though he is a son. The father was pleased with his son and told his servants to bring the best robe and put it on him. The son was wearing a clothes worn out, smelling bad, and dirty because he had been with pigs. He pretended to be a master and fell down to a beggar. Yet, the father told his servants to take off the dirty clothes from the son and put the best robe on him. If we come to God, accepting Him as our Master, He will take off dirty clothes from us and put the best robe on us. Since we pretend to be a master, we are wearing dirty clothes of sin: lust, filthy, jealous, and angry. If we repent and come back as servants, the Father will clothe us with white, clean, and righteous robes bought by the precious blood of Jesus Christ. The father said,  "Take off the dirty clothes from the son and put the best robe on him."
  Isaiah 61:10 reads, "I delight greatly in the Lord; my soul rejoices in my God. For He has clothed me with garments of salvation and arrayed me in a robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom adorns his head like a priest, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels." The Lord will clothe us with beautiful garments as a bridegroom adorns his head like a priest, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels. The father said, "Put sandals on the son." The son pretended to be a master but failed without sandals in the pen of pigs. So his feet were hurt without toenails, bleeding and the father said, "Put sandals on the son."
  Today we pretended to be a master and our feet are hurt. Feet mean "to act." Our acts have become ragged in morality, and hearts because of anxiety, fear, uneasiness, frustration, and despair. Our lives have also become ragged under despondency, poverty, curse, thorns and thistles. However, God says, "Clothe people with sandals of the gospel of peace." He has prepared the life that we might enjoy good health and that all might go well with us, even as our soul were getting along well. The father also said, "Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let's have a feast and celebrate. For my son was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found. So we must celebrate." When the lost son returned, the father was glad to have his son as a servant, but as a master. When the son left the father as a master, the son was lost as a dead one. Yet, when he came back as a servant, he was alive and found. Today when we pretend to be a master and lead wayward lives based on humanism, choosing good or bad, we are abandoned by God. We left for a far country. The children who pretend to be a master are like the dead far away from God. These days  people in the world are like the lost and dead children. That's why they are ignorant of  God. Since they died in spirit, they have nothing to do with Him. In the long run, they must fall into the eternal fire of hell. However, if they repent and return from lost and dead positions as false masters, the Father will welcome us and kill the fattened calf for us. He will rejoice and  be glad. He will fatten us with faith, hope, love, righteousness, peace, the glory of God, and the river overflowing with water. He will make our lives filled with life, joy and pleasure. Now we are no longer hungry, abandoned, and lonely, but enjoy our lives with our Father in heaven.
  Psalm 16:11 tells us, "You have made known to me the path of life; you will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand."  Adam's wrong role of a master brought disaster to the whole human being. If Adam and Eve hadn't pretended to be a master but served and obeyed God as His servants, He would have cared for them. If so, we would have lived so well since Adam and if this earth had been small, we would have gone out to the universe. Since Adam played a wrong role of a master and he betrayed God, today we face horrible disaster. We pretend to be a master based on humanism and struggle in sin and become slaves to greed and face despair, don't we?
  Today we are in the middle of guilt, disappointment, emptiness, meaninglessness, death, and 
eternal fall, aren't we? Then how can we survive? We can survive only when we turn to the God of a true and everlasting master, sovereignty, omniscience, omnipotence and omnipresence through our Lord Jesus. We must repent and turn to Him. Our God, the eternal master, has prepared a way by sending His Son to save us. Our Lord, Jesus Christ suffered on the cross. He broke His body and shed His blood. He went through utmost hardship and trial. He was severely mistreated. Yet, He paid all the penalty for our sin we committed by disobeying God. We have been forgiven from all our sins, including original and present sins. If we come to the Father through Jesus Christ, He will welcome us. To accept Jesus means to give up being a master. We can come back to God as His servant through Jesus. We didn't come to be served but to serve God. We return not because we are righteous, but because we believe in God. We do not live for ourselves, but because we obey God. Now we don't own our lives, present, nor future. We don't decide anything whether it is good or bad. We just bow down to the Lord, serving, trusting, obeying, deciding to follow His will, and come to God through Jesus. We are buried with Jesus Christ and come to God as servants in Christ. You and I are no longer a master now, but servants. We are both sons and servants. We must know that we are not a master. Would you please say to your neighbors, "We are sons and servants?" God will put the best robe on us. He will clothe us with joy. He will seal us with the Holy Spirit as the sign of His sons. The angels in heaven won't receive the Holy Spirit. Yet God will seal us with His Spirit. He will put sandals on our feet so that we may never be hurt. He will kill the fattened calf for us and rejoice. He will grant us abundant lives so that we may enjoy good health and that all may go well with us, even as our soul is getting along well. This is the story of the prodigal son for us. Through this story, the Lord tells us not to be a master. We are not a master, but sons and servants. We are those who trust, love, admire and serve the Master, God. Then heavenly Master, God, will allow us to live with Him in heaven. Where there is the Father, there we, sons and servants. will live with Him.
