Sunday, May 24th 1998
Title : Thus Far Has the Lord Helped Us
Scripture Reading : 1Sam 7:7-12

  People call our God the God of "Ebenezer." For Samuel gathered all the Israelites at Mizpah and had them repent of their sins. Then the Israelites confessed their sins of worshipping the 
idols and returned to Jehovah. When the Philistines heard of it, they were nervous and assembled to attack Israel. When the Israelites heard of it, they were afraid and said to Samuel, "Do not stop crying out to the Lord our God for us, that we may rescue us from the hand of the Philistines." Then Samuel took a suckling lamb and offered it up as a whole burnt offering to the Lord. He cried out to the Lord on Israel's behalf, and the Lord answered him. The Lord thundered with loud thunder against the Philistines and threw them into such a panic that they were routed before the Israelites. The men of Israel rushed out of Mizpah and pursued the Philistines, slaughtering them along the way to a point below Beth Car. Samuel took a stone and set it up between Mizpah and Shen. He named it Ebenezer, saying, "Thus far has the Lord helped us."
  (Part 1)Our church was established and started the warfare against the devil in May 18th 1958 at DaeChoDong(?) mountain. Our church came to "Ebenezer" after having moved to SeoDaeMoun(?) in 1961, Yuido in 1973. As of May 18th 1998, Yuido full gospel church which started with just 5 people in the beginning comes to have 720,000 registered lay Christians. Yuido full gospel church becomes a great church operating Choi Ja sil memorial fast mountain, HanSe university, Elim welfare town, L.A Bethesda seminary and gospel-bearing Kookmin Daily Papers which we are very proud of. At this juncture, we need to stop, look back and think why God has helped and blessed us hitherto. After recollecting the way God blessed, we should not depart the way.

  First, God of "Ebenezer" has helped and blessed us so far. For we strongly proclaimed the gospel of redemption on the cross. We didn't preach  religion, philosophy, and ritual, but the grace of redemption through Jesus Christ's death on the cross.
  The apostle, Paul, confessed his faith in 1 Cor. 2:1-2, "When I came to you, brothers, I did not come with eloquence or superior wisdom as I proclaimed to you the testimony about God. For I resolved to know nothing while I was with you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified." Paul was a great philosopher, jurist, and sociologist. However, he removed all his knowledge and resolved to preach nothing except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. That's because only Jesus Christ and His crucifixion gives us eternal life and heaven.
  I Corinthians 1:18-25 says, "For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. For it is written: 'I will 
destroy the wisdom of the wise; the intelligence of the intelligent I will frustrate.' Where is the wise man?  Where is the scholar? Where is the philosopher of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not know Him, God was pleased through the foolishness of what was preached to save those who believe. Jews demand miraculous signs and Greeks look for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified: a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Gentiles, but to those whom God has called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than man's wisdom, and the weakness of God is 
stronger than man's strength." Therefore, Jews demand miraculous signs and Greeks look for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified: a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Greeks, but to those whom God has called, it is the wisdom of God and the power of God. Yoido Full Gospel Church has been helped and blessed by God for 40 years, for we preached the way of Jesus Christ crucified. We have been preaching the fivefold message of the gospel. Jesus has opened wide the way of forgiveness and righteousness through suffering on the cross. We sin and we are unrighteous and filthy. We can't help perishing forever due to original sin and our own sin. (part 2) We cannot be cleaned all by ourselves as if a mountain lion cannot make clean its hide-pattern. However Jesus cleaned us with His precious blood according to the word in John 3:16, "For God so loved the world that He gave His one and only Son, that whoever believes in Him shall not perish but have eternal life."
  Isaiah 53:5 goes, "But He was pierced for our transgressions, He was crushed for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was upon Him, and by His wounds we are healed"
  This Jesus took up our original sin and our own sin, was shedded His blood and torn His body apiece on the cross so that He footed our 10, 30, 50 and 70 year-old sin, disengaged our unrighteousness and filth from us as if the east is far from the west and opened the door for us boldly to make our ways toward God. 
  This is God's grace. we have delivered the way of forgiveness and unrighteousness for 40 years.
  And we have also proclaimed the way of holiness and full of gospel.
  We eliminated hatred and greed and testified the power of the precious blood of Christ, which gives us love, holiness, and powerful life.
  Titus 3:6-7 tells us, "Whom He poured out on us generously through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that, having been justified by His grace, we might become heirs having the hope of eternal life." The precious blood of Jesus Christ has broken the wall between God and us, and God poured out on us the Holy Spirit like rain. The Holy Spirit came to us and filled us with the love of God and His power, so that we may be freed from slavery of greed. Since we preached the gospel of the power which makes us holy, filled with the Holy Spirit and renewed, God of Ebenezer has blessed us. We have also preached the way of healing and life.
  Acts 10:38 says, "How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power, and how He went around doing good and healing all who were under the power of the devil, because God was with Him." Because Jesus Christ took up our infirmities and carried away our sicknesses by bleeding on the cross, today He heals with His blood those who are caught by the devil.
  1 Peter 2:24 states, "He Himself bore our sins in His body on the tree, so that we might die to sins and live for righteousness; by His wounds you have been healed." Therefore, the way of the cross of Christ is that of healing and life. Disease and suffering are the products of hell but healing and life are the work of heaven. That's why our Lord told us, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near," and drove the demons and healed the sick. For healing is the work of heaven and sickness is the work of hell. Since we testified the way of healing and life through the gospel of Jesus Christ, God of Ebenezer has blessed us. 
  We has also preached the way of freedom from curse and blessing.
  Galatians 3:13-14 says, "Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written: 'Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree.' He redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus, so that by faith we might receive
the promise of the Spirit." This gospel we boldly preached. By faith in Jesus, we can be freed from thorns and thistles of curse.
  According to 2 Cor. 8:9, "For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, so that you through His poverty might become rich." We proclaimed this gospel. 
  (part 3)Jesus brought us the way in which we are free from thorn and thistle of curse.
  It is written in 2 corinthians 8:7, "For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. This word we have witnessed.
Some people blamed us for asking only for blessing, but we just kept on preaching the providence of God: Christ became poor for our sake so that we might become rich through Him. Then God answered us and blessed us. (part 4)And we have delivered the way of eternal life, resurrection and heaven without any addition and deduction. 
  2 corinthians 5:1 states, "Now we know that If the earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God, and eternal house in heaven, not built by human hands."
  Hence, we have boldly and strongly proclaimed the message that our lives doesn't end even if this world comes to ruin, and from that time our new eternal lives will begin.
Jesus said, "Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God; trust also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, I would have told you. I am going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you  also may be where I am." We preached this scripture. Since we proclaimed for 40 years the fivefold message of the gospel that Jesus Christ broke His body and shed His blood on the cross to freely grant us grace and blessing, God of Ebenezer has blessed us.

  Secondly, we have strongly preached the experience of the baptism of the Holy Spirit for 40 years. If we believe in Jesus, the Spirit of God comes into us and makes us born again so that we may have eternal life and become the children of God. The Holy Spirit comes into those who accept Jesus as their Savior and dwells in them. Unless the Holy Spirit comes into us, we can't call Jesus Christ "the Lord," God "Abba Father." Unless we open our spiritual eyes, we are blind. We can see the spiritual dimension, for the Holy Spirit has come into us. If we, who have received the Holy Spirit, pray harder, we will have great power and authority of God as Acts 1:8 says, "You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth." That's why we boldly preached the gospel that the people who believe in Jesus should be baptized with the Holy Spirit and should not be afraid of speaking tongue. We have been preaching the baptism of the Holy Spirit for 40 years so that they may preach the gospel with strong power of the Holy Spirit. 
  We who receive the Holy Spirit get His gifts: the gift of message of wisdom, the message of knowledge, the distinguishing between spirits, tongue, interpretation of tongues, prophecy, faith, miraculous power, and healing, so that we may destroy the work of the devil and establish the kingdom of heaven. 
  And also we don't live like orphans on this earth, but have the relationship with the Holy Spirit.
  John 14:16-17 says, "And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Counselor to be with you forever-- the Spirit of truth. The world cannot accept Him, because it neither sees Him nor knows Him. But you know Him, for He lives with you and will be in you." Since this Counselor, the Holy Spirit is in us, we can recognize, welcome, accept, rely on Him and get help so that we may not live like orphans but live in great blessings in God. That's why God has been with us and blessed us for 40 years. Because we have lived with the Holy Spirit.

  Thirdly, we have proclaimed strong hope for 40 years. We have preached the gospel of hope. We preached that Jesus Christ is the God who brings absolute hope to those in absolute despair. Therefore, we were never discouraged. By nature the world gives us despair. People are desperate, for they are dead in spirit, they must die of sickness, they live in the curse of thorns and thistles, and they will fall into eternal hell. The life of man is the complete despair from the beginning to the end without Christ. Yet we kept preaching good God and the threefold blessings into the desperate world.
  Matthew 7:11 says, "If you, then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good gifts to those who ask Him!"
  According to 3 John 2, "Dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well." We found good God in this scripture and preached good God. If good God comes to us in any dark despair, He works so that we may enjoy good health and that all may go well with us, even as our soul is getting along well. We have spread the gospel: though we can't see, hear, nor feel anything, we must not be discouraged but have dream and hope with faith in good God. As a result, God our Father has been with us. We have instructed that we should believe in Jesus practically not ritually or formally: 
  we must observe the ten commandments by keeping the Sabbath day holy and offering our tithes, thanking God, confessing our faith with lips, and have positive, active, and creative lives.
  Deuteronomy 28:1-6 states, "If you fully obey the Lord your God and carefully follow all His commands I give you today, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations on earth. All these blessings will come upon you and accompany you if you obey the Lord your God: You will be blessed in the city and blessed in the country. The fruit of your womb will be blessed, and the crops of your land and the young of your livestock-- the calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks. Your basket and your kneading trough will be blessed. You will be blessed when you come in and blessed when you go out."  When we did in keeping with this scripture, God granted us  tremendous grace and blessings so that we might be blessed when we come in and out of the temple of God and that we might lend but borrow from none. Therefore, we proclaimed this strong message of hope. 
(part 5)No matter how dark circumstances we face in our lives by IMF crisis, we cannot discard hope. Because Good God is with us.
  Good God gives us good things and makes bad things into good things. Our almighty God made heaven, earth, this world and everything in it. There is no limit in His power and ability.
  What is impossible for God? God can do everything. Therefore, when we rely on God, we also can do everything.

  Fourth, God of Ebenezer has helped and blessed us because we prayed fervently.
(part 6)Prayer is a way to communicate with God. 
  The Lord said in Matthew 6:33, "Seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well." The first way to seek His kingdom and His righteousness is to pray. We struggled to seek God and have relationship with Him through all night prayer, fasting prayer, loud prayer, and daybreak prayer. Therefore, God was greatly pleased with us and revealed His power.
  As Jeremiah 33:3, "Call to me and I will answer you and tell you great and unsearchable things you do not know," we cried out to the Lord and He performed great and unsearchable things beyond our imagination. We prayed fervently for our neighbors, churches, nations, the world, didn't we?
  As Romans 8:26 says, "In the same way, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. We do not know what we ought to pray for, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groans that words cannot express." We continued to intercede in the Holy Spirit and in tongue.  That pleased God.
  The most effective thing of prayer is for spiritual battle.
  James 4:7 says, "Submit yourselves, then, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you." The devil controls the power of air and steals, kills, and destroys us in our circumstances. In order to be against the devil, we must pray. By prayer, we can resist the devil, drive him out, and destroy him. The devil comes in one way but he will run away in seven ways because of our prayer. Therefore, whenever we gathered for 40 years, we cried out to the Lord and He has blessed us so far.

  Fifth, God has blessed us, for we were eager to preach the gospel. We evangelized our family members with enthusiasm so that they could come to Christ. We preached Jesus Christ to our neighbors in season or out of season. We also brought souls to Christ through small and big crusades in domestic regions. Now we have sent about 800 missionaries into the world for the gospel. As you see, some of our missionaries had to come 
back because of a frostbite while evangelizing in the snow of Sakhalin in the U.S.S.R and other missionaries took their places. The life of a missionary is not romantic. To preach the gospel to the gentiles in bad water, environment, and life is a great sacrifice. Yet we were eager to do this mission and our Lord is so pleased with us. 
  The Lord said in Matthew 16:15-18, "Go into all the world and preach the good news to all creation. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. And these signs will accompany those who believe: In my name they will drive out demons; they will speak in new tongues; they will pick up snakes with their hands; and when they drink deadly poison, it will not hurt them at all; they will place their hands on sick people, and they will get well." Since our missionaries went into the world and preached the gospel and we supported them by prayer and substance, God of Ebenezer blessed us as the people of testifying marvelous gospel. God is most interested in preaching the gospel. To save souls through the gospel, He gave up His only Son to die on the cross. So He is doing His best to save souls with great interest, isn't He? That's why He blesses individuals, churches, nations that evangelize. Our God chose Korea for this gospel.
(part 7)When our people repent, accept this duty as truth and evangelizes this gospel all over the world, difficulty such as IMF crisis will be blown away. If God secures us, who can dare to stand against us? What doesn't God who didn't spare His Son give us as present with His Son?
  If we raise the Son, God will save us. If we glorify the Son, God's salvation will come upon us.

  Sixth, the terrific grace and blessings of the Holy Spirit came upon us, for we actively had the movement of lay Christians. Before our church established in this country, only pastors had played the parts for evangelization, but not the lay Christians. However, after our church established we began to set up churches through the movement of lay Christians according to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. We appointed district leaders, home cell leaders for adults and children and let them care for their members. The leaders began to deliver the word of God, have worship services, pray, visit them, and take care of them. This is the movement of lay Christians. Our lay Christians pleased God by preaching the kingdom of heaven in reality as district or home cell leaders. Our Full Gospel mission association evangelizes the whole society and world, doesn't it? Our Full Gospel World Mission is the organization to preach the gospel to every corner of our lives with the hope of God. It was our church that organized this mission and put it into practice for the first time. Our church members devote themselves to God in many organizations in the church. They made those organizations thanking the church, the body of Christ. God was pleased with them, too. 
  Our church has many great education systems. We offer the world's large, synthetic, and systematic education: Sunday schools such as preschoolers', primary students', middle and high school students', college students'; missions such as Koinonia, youth, adults, laymen, and old people. We gather and pray together at these mission groups.
  Therefore, our God wants to bless us. Why has God helped and blessed us? Why has God of Ebenezer been with us? I have told you six reasons for that. We must not ignore these six manners of preaching the gospel. We have passed the long trial in the wilderness. Now God has prepared the great land flowing with milk and honey before us. The times of wilderness has passed and the times of Canaan has come to us. The Lord said, "I will give it to you as an inheritance, a land flowing with milk and honey. I am the Lord your God, who has set you apart from the nations." Now God wants to lead us to the land flowing with milk and honey.
  As He says in Joshua 1:3, "I will give you every place where you set your foot, as I promised Moses," we will prosper in the future. 
  Isaiah 54:2-3 states, "Enlarge the place of your tent, stretch your tent curtains wide, do not hold back; lengthen your cords, strengthen your stakes. For you will spread out to the right and to the left; your descendants will dispossess nations and settle in their desolate cities." We have arranged all these things; we have churches and church members trained and filled with grace. Now we have all prepared to reach out to the whole world.
  Deuteronomy 28:12-14 reads,  "The Lord will open the heavens, the storehouse of His bounty, to send rain on your land in season and to bless all the work of your hands. You will lend to many nations but will borrow from none. The Lord will make you the head, not the tail. If you pay attention to the commands of the Lord your God that I give you this day and carefully follow them, you will always be at the top, never at the bottom. Do not turn aside from any of the  commands I give you today, to the right or to the left, following other gods and serving them." God of Ebenezer has helped us, so we have to understand the reasons and keep them in mind and make efforts to follow them with dreams, visions, and hopes. Then for the following 40 years or until the Lord comes again, we will work 30, 60, and 100 times as much as we do now. Our God is pleased with you who dedicated yourselves to the church, the body of Christ, by prayer, devotion, serving and substance. Now you are on your way to the land flowing with milk and honey and He will give you more abundant grace, love and blessing.

(part 8)
-Prayer-
  Holy and glorious our Father God, the God of Ebenezer, who has helped us so far, we now enter the land flowing with milk and honey, thanks for Your grace and blessings.
  For 40 years of our lives in wilderness, we have struggled to learn faith, obedience and how to serve You. Now, It is high time we entered the land flowing milk and honey and reaped grace and blessing of you. Our Father God, help 720,000 registered lay christians of Yuido full gospel church get fodder wherever they are.
  And in this time of Canaan flowing with milk and honey, help us take part in Canaan so that we become not tail but head, are not in lower place but in upper place and become not those who barrow but lend. we pray in the name of Jesus christ. Amen.
