Sunday, May 23th 1999
Title : Why did the Holy Spirit have to come?
Scripture Reading : Jn 16:7

  Today, I  would like   to speak about   "Why did the 
Holy Spirit have to come?" 

  Forty days after Christ was resurrected, He  appeared 
out of nowhere  to His  disciples at places  hundreds of 
leagues away.   The disciples   who had   seen Christ's 
death on  the  Cross and   had fled in   utter confusion, 
received reassurance  from the  resurrected Christ   Who 
appeared to  them in  various  places, and  had brought 
together. However, they were still a bit confused,  "Why 
was it  necessary  for Christ  to  die? Why   did Christ 
appear   to  them   here  and   there   after  his   death 
resurrection and ascension? 
  In addition, Christ  spoke and  commanded them,  "Do 
not depart  from Jerusalem  but wait   for what I  have 
promised you from the Father. While John  baptized you 
with water, in a short while,  you will be baptized with 
the  Holy   Spirit." The   disciples,   after having   seen 
Christ's ascension,  gathered  together in  Jerusalem,  in 
Mark's attic,   to pray   whole-heartedly for  about  ten 
days. The  miracles  of Heaven   become manifest  only 
through prayers. When  you are  slack in your  prayers, 
you  cannot  experience  God's  miracles.  After  seeing 
Christ's ascension,   the disciples  prayed for   ten days 
with all   their hearts   and yearnings   clinging to   the 
promise of Christ.
  It  is  written   in Acts   2:1-4,  "When  the  day   of 
Pentecost came,  they  were all  together  in one  place. 
Suddenly a  sound like  the blowing  of a  violent wind 
came from  heaven and   filled the whole   house where 
they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues 
of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. 
All of them were filled  with the Holy Spirit and  began 
to speak in other  tongues as the  Spirit enabled them." 
They experienced  a true  wonder. What  changes came 
over the disciples as a result of the coming of the Holy 
Spirit?

  First, the   Holy Spirit   came as   the interpreter   of 
Christ's death  on  the Cross.   Christ's disciples didn't 
know what  to make  of  Christ's death  on the   Cross. 
Why  did  the   Messiah have   to  die?  Why  was   it 
necessary for the Son of  God to be torn, to  bleed, and 
to die? They just didn't know. However, when the Holy 
Spirit came, He  informed the  disciples the meaning  of 
the Cross. The Holy  Spirit taught them, Christ's  death 
was  not  some  coincidence, nor   because Christ  was 
powerless. The  disciples realized   that  Christ's death 
has been planned by God from time eternal.
  It is written in Acts 2:22 to 24, "Men  of Israel, listen 
to this: Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God 
to you by miracles, wonders and signs,   which god did 
among you through him, as you  yourselves know. This 
man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and 
foreknowledge; and you,  with the help  of wicked men, 
put him to death by  nailing him to the cross.  But God 
raised him from the  dead, freeing him  from the agony 
of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its 
hold on him."  What Peter  realized as  he received  the 
Holy Spirit  was  that Christ's  death  was pre-planned   
by God. Christ  died according to  God's will  and plan, 
not because He  was powerless or  through coincidence. 
Christ's death was pre-planned by God, not coincidence; 
Disciples learned   this truth  through  the  Holy  Spirit. 
Christ's death was an astounding work, a grace of God.
  Christ did   not die  meaninglessly,  but  died  for all 
mankind. Through His death, we have  been forgiven of 
our sins, washed clean forevermore, so that we  may be 
righteous in God.  Disciples further  realized that  Christ 
died on  the Cross   to drive out   the demons and   the 
things of this wicked world  from within us, to  free us 
from Satan,   making  us citizens  of  the Kingdom   of 
Heaven by filling  us with the  Holy Spirit. He  realized 
Christ died to lift our spirits  and free us from sadness, 
troubles, worries  and anxiety.  Christ has redeemed us 
from our despair,  freed us from  suffering afflictions of 
the body,   and paid   for our   sins to  make  available 
happiness, health and  life for  us. The disciples  further 
realized Christ redeemed Man who since Adam and Eve 
has been condemned to suffer in the land of thorns and 
thistles, bleeding from their pricking, to offer Abraham's 
blessings and His own  work of grace, salvation, Christ 
was condemned on  the Cross. They realized,  Christ as 
He died, carried  our death  unto Himself,  destroyed its 
power over us, abolished  its hold, to  give us new life, 
eternal life in the eternal Kingdom of Heaven.
  For this   purpose, Christ,  to pay   for our  salvation, 
suffered in our place. This was revealed to the disciples 
through the   Holy Spirit.   Prior to   the Holy   Spirit's 
coming, the  disciples could  not fathom  the reason  for 
Christ's death  on  the Cross.   They began to   suspect 
Christ's death  to be  a great  tragedy, a  great  failure. 
However, Christ's death  was a  great triumph, a  great 
victory. They   realized it  was  the accomplishment   of 
God's plan for the salvation  of mankind who had  been 
condemned. This knowledge came from  the Holy Spirit. 
Before the   coming of  the  Holy Spirit,   they did  not 
understand.
  Also, as   the Holy   Spirit filled  them,  the  received 
courage. They realized  Christ was the  same yesterday, 
today and forever. Christ  said He would  be with them 
until the last days. With the coming  of the Holy Spirit, 
the disciples realized Christ would  indeed be with them 
until  the  last  days,  thereby  encouraging  them.  The 
disciples who   fled in  fear  of those   who had  nailed 
Christ to the Cross, with the coming of the Holy Spirit, 
realized Christ would never depart from them but would 
be with them,  thereby, they  received limitless  courage 
and strength.

  Second, with   the coming  of  the  Holy Spirit,   they 
realized Holy Spirit had come as the spirit of witness to 
carry out the ministry of witness. If the Holy Spirit had 
not come,  Christ's  death on  the  Cross would   be no 
more than one  of many  tragedies which  happened  in 
some corner  of Palestine.  His death  would have  been 
lost in the memories  of mankind. However,  it was the 
Holy Spirit  Who  has turned  the  redemptive work   of 
Christ into that which effected all humanity  throughout 
all of man's history. The Holy  Spirit raised Christ high 
above for   all man  to see   and receive  the Salvation 
through Him. If the Holy  Spirit had not come,  Christ's 
death would have been  forgotten as nothing more  than 
a simple tragedy of one man's death in Palestine.
  It is written in Luke 24:46-49, "The Christ will suffer 
and rise from the dead on the third day, and repentance 
and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to 
all nations, beginning  at Jerusalem.  You are  witnesses 
of these   things. I  am going   to send  you  what my 
Father has promised, but stay in the city until you have 
been clothed   with power  from  on  high." The   verse 
foretold of the coming  of the Holy  Spirit  Who would 
spread the  message of  Christ's salvation  to each  and 
every nation of  this world  reaching out down  through 
history to each  and every  man the  universal work  of 
salvation. It can  be said  that with  the coming  of the 
Holy Spirit, Christ became the Saviour of this world,  of 
this universe, down through history.
  It is written  in Acts  2:38,39, "Peter  replied, 'Repent 
and be  baptized,  every  one of  you, in   the name of 
Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of  your sins. And you 
will receive the gift of  the Holy Spirit. The  promise is 
for you   and your  children  and for   all who  are  far 
off-for all  whom the  Lord  our God  will call."  Christ 
became the Saviour for all with the coming of the Holy 
Spirit. As the Spirit of  witness, the Holy Spirit  resides 
in our hearts. The Holy  Spirit reassures us of  Christ's 
salvation  personally.  When  the  Holy  Spirit  convicts, 
even a "church-goer" is quickened to life. They come to 
feel the   living Christ  in  their heart   like a  flash  of 
lightening. Even  those who  have  accepted Christ  and 
have received the salvation at  times have one foot  still 
in the   world through   lack of    complete conviction, 
receive a firm conviction of  the living Christ when  the 
Holy Spirit comes.  They come  to have  the undeniable 
conviction of Christ's salvation in their hearts.
  It is written  in John  14:26, "But  the Counselor,  the 
Holy Spirit,  whom the  Father will  send in  my name, 
will  teach  you  all  things  and   will remind   you of 
everything I have  said to you."  The Holy Spirit  gives 
you understanding   about Christ  and  reminds  you of 
what Christ said.
   It is  written in  Acts 2:32,33,  "God has  raised this 
Jesus to  life,  and we   are all  witnesses of   the fact. 
Exalted to the right hand of God,  he has received from 
the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured  out 
what  you  now   see and   hear."  Once   having been 
resurrected and  had ascended,  Christ poured  the Holy 
Spirit into our hearts.  Christ comes to  us as the  Holy 
Spirit after His  resurrection to assure  us to the  bones 
of His presence. That same Holy Spirit also helps us to 
witness to others with sincerity  and love. Our desire to 
witness to  others results  from the    fire of the  Holy 
Spirit in us.
  John Wesley   at first   desired to  evangelize  United 
States, however, he failed in  his ministry, in Louisiana. 
Circumstances drove him to get  on a ship for England. 
During the voyage  to England, the  ship was  hit by a 
storm  as  waves   threatened to   overturn  it.  As  he 
trembled in  fear,  he witnessed   a strange  sight of  a 
group of  Moravian missionaries  who  were filled  with 
the Holy  Spirit and  were singing  hymn as  they held 
one   another.   Having  reached   England   safely,   he 
wandered about London and one  day happened to enter 
a Lutheran  church. At  the  church, John  Wesley was 
filled with the  Holy Spirit  and was  convicted without 
doubt that Christ was indeed the  resurrected and living 
Son of God in his heart. He realized  why the Moravian 
missionaries were able to  sing praises to  God even as 
their ship   was in  danger  of  being  capsized by   the  
fierce storm.
  John Wesley receive  faith which transcended  fear of 
death. Then, he  got up on  a horse  and went all  over 
England  to   spread  the   Gospel.  As   a  result,   the 
Methodist Church was established, all  due to, according 
to John Wesley,  the burning flames  of the Holy  Spirit 
in his heart. Under the  flames of the Holy  Spirit, John 
Wesley witnessed the Gospel all his life.
  It is the Holy Spirit Who gives you passion and love. 
When we have the Holy Spirit burning in us, we cannot 
sit still.   We are  driven to   go out  and  witness. As 
church deacons, as cell leaders, satisfaction  can only be 
had when we  spread Christ's message.  Why? Because 
the flame of the Holy Spirit is in us.
  It is  written in  John 15:26,27,  "When the  Counselor 
comes, whom I  will send to  you from the  Father, the 
Spirit of truth  who goes out  from the  Father, he will 
testify about  me. And  you also  must testify,  for you 
have been   with me  from  the  beginning."  The Holy 
Spirit is a spirit of  witness. The Holy Spirit  strives to 
witness through us. Not only that, the Holy Spirit gives 
us power and authority.
  Many  people  say,  "I  am  nothing.   I am   a mere 
housewife. My life is bland. I have no talent,  I have no 
special ability." However, when the   Holy Spirit comes, 
the Spirit of God gives us the power and authority.
  It is   written in  John 14:12,   "I tell  you  the truth, 
anyone who has faith in  me will do what  I have been 
doing.  He  will  do  even  greater   things than   these, 
because I am going to the Father." Why does Christ do 
greater things because  He goes  to the  Father? Christ 
meant He would  send us  the Holy  Spirit. Also,  when 
the Holy Spirit comes,  we  would do  what Christ had 
done and   even greater  things.  We can   confirm this 
through Peter. After  Peter received the  Holy Spirit, he 
healed the cripple  man sitting at  the temple gates  and 
at one time  brought five  thousand people to  salvation. 
Peter's very  shadow had  the  power to  heal even  as 
Paul put  his robe  on the  possessed  to drive  out the 
demons and heal them  from their afflictions. These  are 
possible  because  the   Holy Spirit   gives  power   and 
authority. The Holy Spirit does not remain static in us.
  The Holy Spirit gives us certain of His gifts. As gifts 
pertaining to dreams, He  gives us the  gifts of varying 
kinds among   them including  the gift   of speaking  in 
tongues and  interpreting  the tongues   as well  as the 
gifts of healing others  of their ills and  of miracles. He 
gives us supernatural gifts of power  which man cannot 
possible obtain naturally. With such powers,  He enables 
us to witness the Gospel throughout this world of ours.
  Not only  the gifts  which were  mentioned, the  Holy 
Spirit also  brings about  a fundamental  change in  our 
characters. The Holy Spirit offers  us the fruits of love, 
joy, peace, devotion,  patience, compassion, humility  and 
abstinence. In   such a   way, we   receive supernatural 
power and bear fruits  of the Holy  Spirit when we are 
in Christ.

  Third,  God   comes to   us as   the Holy  Spirit  to 
communicate with us and to  reside in us. Being a  part 
of a family means having close contact with the parents 
and siblings   through exchanges  of communication.   A 
family without  "koinonia" is  not  really a  family. The 
Holy Spirit comes to us and he leads to have fellowship 
with God  and Christ.   The very essence  of  the Holy 
Spirit is communication. Without the  Holy  Spirit, there 
is no fellowship. Many  people think the  Holy Spirit as 
fire and water, however, He also has intellect, emotions, 
and will.
  It  is  written  in  ICorinthians  2:10,  "But   God has 
revealed it to  us by his  Spirit. The Spirit searches all 
things, even the  deep things of  God." The Holy  Spirit 
has knowledge. The Holy Spirit has emotions.
  It is written  in Ephesians  4:30, "And  do not  grieve 
the Holy Spirit of God, with whom you were sealed  for 
the day of  redemption." The  Holy Spirit  can feel  joy, 
sadness and worry. The Holy Spirit also has will.
  It is written in  ICorinthians 12:11, "All these  are the 
work of one and the same Spirit, and he  gives them to 
each  one,  just  as  he  determines."  The  Holy  Spirit 
bestows  His  gifts  according  to  His  will.  As  such, 
although He is bodiless, the Holy Spirit having intellect, 
emotion and will, has  character. Although He comes  to 
us like  the wind,  He as  character like  our husbands, 
wives and children, as He resides in us.
  The Holy Spirit also comes to us as Counselor. Being 
a Counselor means he has been sent by God to stay by 
our sides and help us in times of need. "Counselor" is a 
helper, a  teacher, a  comforter, an  advocate. The  Holy 
Spirit comes to us  to help and take  care of us.  Christ 
told us   He would  not abandon   us like  orphans  but 
would come to  us. He  would ask  the Father  to send 
another  Counselor   to  be   with  us   until  the   end. 
Christians are different from others in that we have not 
been abandoned like orphans.
  To us, the  Holy Spirit  comes to  be our  guide, our 
comforter, our  teacher, our  shepherd, and  to make  us 
holy and to train us.  We are not some parentless  boys 
or girls in the  Kingdom of Heaven. We  have the Holy 
Spirit with us. For you and  I, we have the Holy  Spirit 
Who is the  Spirit of wisdom,  the Spirit of  ability, the 
Spirit of intelligence, the Spirit  of knowledge, the Spirit 
of worship. The Holy Spirit stays with us and gives us 
wisdom,   intelligence,   and   counsels   us   when   in 
difficulties, gives us ability,  knowledge and helps us to 
live holy lives in worship of God. He also empowers us 
to live   in this  world  as Christians   without blemish. 
Without this  help of  the  Holy Spirit,  we cannot   live 
with faith based only on  knowledge. As such, with the 
Holy Spirit beside us  as our Counselor,  we must have 
close fellowship with the Spirit in our lives.
  It is  written in  John 14:20,   "On that day  you will 
realize that I am in my Father, and you are  in me, and 
I am in you." Such  intimate fellowship is possible with 
the Holy  Spirit.  Through the   Holy Spirit,  God holds 
fellowship with   us and   becomes our   partner in   all 
things   which  we   do.  Apostle   Paul   said  to   the 
Corinthians, may the love of  God our Father, the grace 
of Jesus Christ, and the  fellowship with the Holy spirit 
be with you  and all  your families. The  Holy Spirit  is 
always around   us. However,   when we  accept  Jesus 
Christ and are  washed with the  blood, the Holy  Spirit 
comes into us. Then, as  we ask in the  name of God's 
grace, he  clothes  us in   new robes.  The Holy   Spirit 
descends from above  to empower  us. The  Holy Spirit 
comes into us to  work for  us,  to give us  power and 
authority.
  As such, we must always accept the  Holy Spirit into 
our lives,   greet and  trust in    Him. Today,  a great 
blemish of  our Pentecostal  church is   that through so 
much emphasis on  receiving such power  and authority 
from the   Holy Spirit,   some members  have  distorted 
purpose  of  taking  advantage  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to 
receive power  and authority.  The Holy  Spirit is  God. 
The Holy Spirit is the rightful owner of the churches. 
  The Holy Spirit is  the master of  the harvesters. We 
are His servants, His  harvesters. We must not  attempt 
to take advantage of the Holy  Spirit. Many servants of 
God have  tried  to take advantage  of the Holy  Spirit, 
only to meet  with complete failure  and disappointment. 
The Holy Spirit is the master, we  are the workers. We 
are servants at the Holy  Spirit's beck and call.  At the 
church of Antioch,  the Holy Spirit  commanded Paul to 
have himself separate from Barnabas for God. The Holy 
Spirit had so commanded according to His purpose. The 
Holy Spirit is  our master  for the  harvest. We  should 
not dare  to  manipulate the   Holy Spirit  for our  own 
motives.
  The Holy Spirit is also one of the Triune who brings 
us  the  Father's  love  and  allows  us  to  partake  in 
Christ's grace.  When the   Holy Spirit comes,  we  can 
have faith that lies  beyond mere knowledge.  When the 
Holy Spirit comes, we  can have faith which  move and 
inflame the heart, bring about  fundamental changes and 
facilitate fellowship. Fellowship  with the  Holy Spirit is 
absolutely necessary.  As such,  we  must acknowledge, 
welcome, accept and trust the  Holy Spirit as a  Person. 
Whenever  you  pray,  say,  "I    acknowledge You.   I 
welcome You. I accept You and I trust You."
  Do this every  day, as  I do.  "I acknowledge  You; I 
welcome You; I accept You and I trust You." You must 
realize the Holy Spirit is  a Person. Being ignored  as a 
person is a great insult to a living person of this world. 
When we ignore the Holy Spirit, He also feels indignity 
and no longer works for us. Follow after  me, "Oh Holy 
Spirit, I acknowledge You; I welcome You; I accept You 
and  I  trust   You." We   must  have   this  kind   of 
fellowship with  the Holy   Spirit at all  times,  and we 
must always work with the Holy Spirit.
  The Holy Spirit is our  senior partner, our mentor.  In 
all things,  we must  acquire the  help of  God and  the 
Holy Spirit.  "Oh  Holy Spirit,   teach us,  lead us,  and 
guide us." When  we read  the Bible   we should pray, 
"Oh  Holy Spirit, open my eyes that I may see the true 
wisdom in the  Bible. When  I listen  to Your  message 
open my   ears to   Your wisdom."  Faith  comes  from 
hearing and the hearing is the Word of Christ. I do  not 
say, "Read  only the  Bible." Although  faith does  come 
from reading the  Bible, deep faith  comes from hearing 
the sermons. The faith from reading the Bible is limited 
in some sense, the  deep faith is given  us by the Holy 
Spirit when  we  hear God's   messages. Whenever  we 
listen to  God's  messages we  should  pray, "Oh   Holy 
Spirit, open   my ears  that I   may understand."  When 
working, "Oh Holy Spirit, anoint and empower me. Help 
me to accomplish this work successfully. Whenever I go 
abroad to witness God, I pray, "Oh Holy Spirit, go with 
me." These   words I   speak in  Korean  in  Korea,  in 
English in America, and in Japanese in Japan. When the 
Holy Spirit  anoints you,  we  can accomplish  all work 
successfully.
  On the other hand, trusting only yourself may lead to 
blood,   sweat   and   tears    without   the   successful 
accomplishment. We   must make  the  Holy Spirit   our 
partner in all  things. Through  the Holy Spirit  we can 
be supplied with the love of God and the grace of Jesus 
Christ. As  God is  seated upon  the throne  of Heaven, 
Christ sits at His right side while the Holy Spirit comes 
to us as the communication line. By  being with us, the 
Holy Spirit establishes the line of communication for us. 
In effect,  we are  given God's  love through  the  Holy 
Spirit, and through the Holy Spirit, we are blessed with 
the grace of  Jesus Christ.  We must  pray, "Oh   Holy 
Spirit, intercede between us and God and  grant  us the 
love of God  and the grace  of Jesus Christ."  Prayer is 
the mode of  communication which when  anointed with 
oil by   the Holy  Spirit can   become powerful  prayers 
reaching up to Heaven. The first church was established 
with the  coming  of the   Holy Spirit. In   addition, the 
Holy Spirit is  the master  harvester, and  the one  who 
conveys the love of God and the  grace of Jesus Christ. 
When we walk  and work  with the  Holy Spirit  in all 
things,   we    can   become    power-filled   successful 
Christians who enter into Heaven richly. 

-Prayer-
  Oh God   of love   and holiness,   we thank  you  for 
sending us the  Holy Spirit,  to be  with  us  for 2,000 
years, to be  in the  Church, to reside  with and  in us, 
working for  your well-being.  Today,  come among  us 
like the wind, the fire  and the water. We acknowledge, 
welcome, accept and  trust you. Oh  Holy Spirit,  assure 
us of   the grace   of Jesus  Christ,  that  of Salvation. 
Without the help of the Holy Spirit  we cannot know of 
Christ's death on the  Cross, we cannot  understand the 
redemptive nature of Christ's death.  Help me to realize 
how the Holy Spirit opened  my eyes, and how through 
Christ I have  been pleased  and how  through Christ  I 
have been freed from  Satan and this world,  have been 
healed from  illness and   sadness, removed from   curse 
and poverty.   Oh Counselor  Holy Spirit,   help us,  the 
citizens  of  Heaven   to commune   with  god  through 
prayers so that we may receive the authority and power 
of God, making us well  in all things as our  spirits are 
made well, filled  with health  and life; And  help us  to 
lift the Gospel and to become Its  witness to the end of 
this world. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.

