Sunday, October 24th 1999
Title : What Is Faith?
Scripture Reading : Mark 11:20-25

  Jesus wanted to  teach his  disciples what  faith was. 
One early morning,  on the way  to Jerusalem  with his 
disciples, Jesus was passing through  fig trees on a  hill 
of olives.  There  were many  fig trees, and  under the 
best one  of  them he   looked for its   fruit. The  Bible 
clearly  says   that  it   was  not   the time   for   figs. 
Nevertheless, he looked for figs but didn't  find any. He 
told the fig tree, "No  one will take any  fruit from you 
forever," and He left the place. He worked  in Jerusalem 
all day and went  to Bethany in the  evening. The next 
day while he was  walking by the fig  trees again with 
his disciples, Peter found the fig tree  that Jesus cursed, 
completely withered from the root. He said, "Lord, Lord. 
The fig tree  that you  cursed yesterday has  withered." 
Then looking   at his   disciples, Jesus  taught  them  a 
grave lesson  on faith   saying, "Have faith   in God. If 
anyone says to this  mountain, 'Go, throw  yourself into 
the sea,' and  does not doubt  in his heart  but believes 
that what he says will happen,  it will be done for him. 
Whatever you ask for  in prayer, believe that  you have 
received it, and it  will be yours.  And when you  stand 
praying, if  you hold   anything against anyone,  forgive 
him, so  that your  Father in  heaven may  forgive  you 
your sins." This  instruction includes  a great  secret of 
faith. By   considering this  Word of   Christ, today  we 
have to realize what faith is.

  First, our Lord said, "Have faith in God."  No one has 
ever seen God, then how do  we believe in him? If  you 
are asked to believe in the one  you have never seen in 
your life, can  you do? Yet,  Jesus said,  "Have faith in 
God." In  history there  was only  one who  showed  us 
who God is. That was the Son of God, Jesus.  Although 
we have never seen  God, we can  see Jesus in  history 
and know of him. To know Jesus  is to know God, and 
to believe in  Jesus is to  believe in God.  For God  and 
Jesus are one. The Bible testifies about that so often.
  John 1:1-3 says, "In the beginning was the Word, and 
the Word was  with God,  and the Word  was God.  He 
was with God in the beginning. Through him  all things 
were made;  without him   nothing was made  that  has 
been made." Jesus and God were together as One Being. 
Since God made everything through  Jesus, nothing was 
made without Him. Therefore,  Jesus is the perfect  God 
who came as a perfect man, so he who sees Jesus sees 
God.
  We also  read  in John  1:14-18,  "The Word  became 
flesh and made  his dwelling among  us. We have  seen 
his glory,  the glory  of the  One and  Only, who  came 
from the Father,  full of grace  and truth. John  testifies 
concerning him. He cries  out, saying. 'This  was he of 
whom I said,  'He who  comes after me  has surpassed 
me because he was before me.' From the fullness of his 
grace we have  all received  one blessing after  another. 
For the law was given through  Moses; grace and truth 
came through Jesus Christ. No  one has ever seen  God, 
but God the One and Only, who is at the Father's side, 
has made him known." Here we can see that Jesus,  the 
One and Only,  who is at  the Father's  side, has made 
God known to us. Therefore, all  the glory of God is  in 
Jesus. 
  Colossians 1:15-19  states,  "He is  the  image of  the 
invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him 
all things were created: things  in heaven and on  earth, 
visible  and  invisible,  whether  thrones  or  powers  or 
rulers or authorities; all things were created by him and 
for him. He is  before all things,  and in him  all things 
hold together.  And  he is   the head of   the body,  the 
church; he   is the   beginning and   the firstborn  from 
among the dead,  so that in  everything He might  have 
the supremacy.  For God  was pleased  to have  all His 
fullness dwell in Him."  Hence, where is God?  He is in 
Jesus. Jesus and God are an inseparable unit.
  Hebrews 1:1-3 plainly tells us, "In the past God spoke 
to our forefathers  through the prophets  at many  times 
and in  various ways,   but in these   last days he  has 
spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all 
things, and through  whom he  made the universe.  The 
Son is   the radiance   of God's   glory and   the exact 
representation  of  his   being." It   says  Jesus  is   the 
radiance of God's glory and  the exact representation of 
his being. Therefore,  when the  Lord says, "Have  faith 
in God," it means, "Have faith in  me." That is, he who 
has seen Jesus has seen God. 
  In John 14:7-11, Jesus  says, "If you really  knew me, 
you would know my Father as well. From now on,  you 
do know  him and  have seen  him." Philip  said, "Lord, 
show us the  Father and  that will  be enough  for us." 
Jesus answered: "Don't you know me, Philip, even after 
I have been among you such a long time?  Anyone who 
has seen me  has seen  the Father.  How can  you say, 
'Show us the Father'?  Don't you believe  that I am in 
the Father, and that the Father  is in me?" Likewise, to 
believe in God the Father, is to believe in Jesus,  and to 
know Jesus is to know God. Jesus is in the  Father and 
the Father  in  Jesus. The   Father and Jesus   are one. 
Though they are  two beings,  they exist  and work  as 
one perfect unit. Therefore, "Have  faith in God," means 
to accept the grace  that God granted us  through Jesus 
Christ. God provided us with amazing grace through his 
Son, Jesus, whose  body was torn  apart and who  shed 
his blood  on  the cross.   We should  believe the   very 
grace.
  Then what sort of  grace did he  offer us? God  gave 
us forgiveness and righteousness  through Christ. If  we 
believe, we will be forgiven and justified. Through Jesus 
Christ, God will expel  the devil and secularity  from us 
and fill us with heaven and the Holy Spirit. "Have faith 
in God," means  to believe  in God  who through  Jesus 
drives  out  all  our  sorrows   and fills   us with   joy; 
destroys our diseases and  gives us healing  and health; 
removes our thorns,  curses and poverty  and grants us 
prosperity and blessings. "Have faith in  God," means to 
believe the fact that God destroyed death  through Jesus 
Christ who  was crucified,  buried,  and who  conquered 
death and hell. He rose on the third day and was seated 
on the   right hand   of the   heavenly throne,   so that 
through Jesus Christ, we might overcome death and hell 
and be  seated on  the throne  in him.  When  the Lord 
says, "Have  faith  in God,"   it means that   we should 
believe in  him, being  aware  of his  magnificent grace 
manifested through Jesus Christ.
  Today, God  also reveals  himself through   the Word. 
Therefore, we have  to believe  in him  who appears  in 
the Word through Jesus Christ. 
  Romans 10:17  says, "Faith   comes from hearing   the 
message, and the message is heard through the word of 
Christ." If we hear the word  of God and trust him, we 
can put faith  in him.  Hence, we must  believe in  God. 
We must   not lead  our  lives relying   on our  senses, 
wisdom,   intelligence,   experiences   and   youth.   For 
everything will change. You  
should trust God, who made heaven, earth, manages our 
lives now and  has predestined  our whole  lives. If  we 
trust God in Jesus, we shall not be put to shame. What 
is faith? 
Faith is to believe in  God revealed in Jesus  Christ. To 
believe in some  other except  God manifested  in Jesus 
Christ is not Christianity.

  Second, what  is  faith? It   is the  confession of   the 
mouth. Please say after me,  "Faith is the confession  of 
the mouth."  The  Lord says,  "If  anyone says   to this 
mountain, 'throw  yourself into  the sea,'  and does  not 
doubt in his heart  but believes that  what he says will 
happen, it will be done for him." Through this word, he 
tells us that faith is the  confession of the mouth. Since 
he says, "anyone," all  of us are involved,  regardless of 
sex, age or  possessions. Anyone  who believes  in God 
through Jesus Christ  can confess with  his mouth. The 
Lord says, "If anyone says to this mountain, 'Go, throw 
yourself into   the sea,   ---" Have   you ever   seen a 
mountain being  thrown into   the sea? It's  out  of the 
question to   our way  of  thinking. If   we say  to  the 
mountain, "Go, throw yourself into the sea," then do you 
think it will be thrown into the sea? By no means. Yet, 
a mountain is mentioned symbolically. It symbolizes that 
though we think something is impossible,  if we confess 
with   our  mouths   in  faith,   God   will  accept   our 
confessions and do miracles.  Therefore, "this mountain" 
symbolizes a serious problem we can't overcome on our 
own. But the  problem can  be removed  through God's 
power. Therefore, by the  confession of our mouth,  that 
will take place. If  we have faith  in our hearts,  believe 
that miracles will be performed and  confess it with our 
mouths, it will have marvelous power.
  Romans 10:10 says,  "For it  is with  your heart  that 
you believe and are justified, and it is with  your mouth 
that you  confess  and are   saved." If  we believe   and 
confess with our mouths, we are saved.
  Matthew 18:18  reads, "Whatever  you  bind on  earth 
will be  bound in  heaven, and  whatever you  loose  on 
earth will be loosed in heaven."  With what do we bind 
and loose? With  our mouths.  It is written,  "You have 
been trapped by what you  said, ensnared by the words 
of your mouth."  It means that  by confessing with  our 
mouths what we bind on earth will be bound in heaven, 
and what we  loose on earth  will be loosed  in heaven. 
However, if we  confess without faith,  it is  of no use. 
No matter how much we confess with  doubt, it will be 
useless. We have to confess with faith.  James 1:6 says, 
"But when he asks, he must believe and not doubt."
  Hebrews 10:38 says,  "My righteous  one will live  by 
faith." God made heaven and earth through declaring the 
Word.  When   the  earth   was  formless   and  empty, 
darkness was  over  the surface  of  the deep,  and  the 
Spirit of God  was hovering over  the waters,  the Lord 
proclaimed the  Word,  "Let there  be  light," and   there 
was light.  God  made the   expanse and  separated the 
water under the  expanse from  the water above  it. He 
called the expanse "sky." Then  God said, "Let the  land 
produce vegetation: seed-bearing plants and trees on the 
land that bear  fruit with seed  in it, according  to their 
various kinds."  And it  was so.   When God said,  "Let 
there be  the sun  and the  moon,"  they appeared.  God 
said, "Let birds  fly above  the earth and  fish swim  in 
the sea."   And it   was so.   God said,   "Let the  land 
produce living creatures  according to their  kinds." And 
it was so. Likewise, it  was the Word that  God created 
the universe with.  Look at  the life  of Jesus.  Through 
the Word, he  forgave people  their sins,  drove out  the 
demon, healed the sick, gave life to the dead and calmed 
the sea. He has  never done these  things by any  other 
means   than  by   word.  The   Lord   said  and   God 
accomplished. Jesus' disciples also used words.
  Mark 16:20 reads,  "Then the  disciples went  out and 
preached everywhere, and  the Lord  worked with  them 
and confirmed his Word by  the signs that accompanied 
it." Peter was filled with  the Holy Spirit on the  day of 
Pentecost. When he was  going up to  the temple, there 
was a man  at its  gate crippled  from birth.  What did 
Peter say? He  said, "Look at  me! Silver  or gold I  do 
not have, but what  I have I give  you. In the  name of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  walk."  The  crippled  man 
jumped to   his feet  and  began to   walk! He  said  to 
Aeneas  who   had  been   bedridden  for  eight   years, 
"Aeneas, Jesus Christ  heals you.  Get up."  Immediately 
Aeneas got up. Moreover, in Joppa  there was a woman 
named Dorcas. When she died,  her body was placed  in 
an upstairs room.  Peter came,  prayed and  said to  the 
dead woman, "Tabitha, get up." Then she got  up! Peter 
used a spoken word  but not anything  else. When Paul 
preached  in  Lystra,  a  man  with  crippled   feet was 
listening to  him. Paul   called out, "Stand   up on your 
feet!" At that, the  man jumped up  and began to walk. 
You know, while Paul kept on  preaching at Troas until 
midnight, a  young man  named  Eutychus was  sinking 
into a  deep sleep  seated  in a  widow. He  fell  to the 
ground and died. Paul went down, threw himself on him 
and said, "He's  alive!" Then the  young man  arose. In 
this way,   Jesus Christ  and His   disciples worked  by 
spoken words. Through  confession of  the mouth,  they 
did great things.
  Hence, today since we believers have  the same Spirit 
of God and the  same Word in  us, God works  through 
the   confession  of   our  mouths.   Therefore,  through 
speaking,   we  should   be   positive,  active,   creative, 
productive,   and   hopeful.   If    we   speak   negative, 
destructive, hopeless,  resentful and  discontented words, 
they will destroy our souls, bodies  and lives. The Bible 
says,  "You  have   been trapped   by  what  you  said, 
ensnared by  the words  of your  mouth." It  also says, 
"The tongue has the power of life and  death, and those 
who love it will eat its  fruit." Therefore, what is faith? 
It is the  confession of  our mouth. The  Lord says,  "If 
anyone says to this  mountain, 'Go, throw  yourself into 
the sea,' and  does not doubt  in his heart  but believes 
that what he says will happen, it will be done for him." 
Unbelievers say that what they speak will take place  in 
reality. What we  say will  be planted  and it will  bear 
fruit. Then God's Word is  more than that. That's why 
believers should  be careful  to speak   and use positive 
and creative   words. What   you say   will have  great 
influence on your present  and future; you  must choose 
good words.

  Third, what is faith?  The Lord says,  "Whatever you 
ask for  in prayer,  believe that  you have  received  it." 
The prayer has two kinds: one from our  minds and the 
other from  our  hearts. The   former is  just from   our 
knowledge but   the latter  is from   the depths  of  our 
heart. When the  Lord says, "Whatever  you ask  for in 
prayer, believe  that you  have received   it," the prayer 
doesn't mean from our knowledge,  but from the depths 
of our  heart. After  we pray   from the bottom  of our 
heart, we should believe that we have received it. Then, 
how do  we pray   from the depths  of  our heart?  We 
should have clear goals. Without goals, we may pray in 
utter confusion.
  Hebrews 11:1 tells  us, "Faith  is being sure  of what 
we hope for..." When we  hope for clear things, we  can 
have faith.  The prayer  from  the depths  of our   heart 
should be simple and distinct. 
  Matthew 6:7 says,  "When you pray,  do not  keep on 
babbling like pagans, for  they think they will  be heard 
because of their  many words."  If we are  busy saying 
too many words  in prayer,  we won't be  able to  pray 
fervently. Do  not  keep on  babbling.  When you   pray, 
have a specific  request. For  salvation, just  say, "Save 
me, save me." For healing, say, "Heal me, heal me, heal 
me." For a  job, say,  "Give me  a job,  give me a  job, 
give me a job." With simple, plain words  and undivided 
attention, we can pray wholeheartedly. If not, we will be 
confused with many thoughts while trying to pray  from 
the depths of  our heart.  In order to  pray heartily,  we 
have to ask  repeatedly and  frequently. The Bible  says 
that when a man went to  his neighbor for three loaves 
of bread at  midnight to  give his  friend who  came to 
him on a journey, he strongly pleaded.
  We read in  Luke 11:8-9, "I  tell you,  though he will 
not get up  and give  him the bread  because he  is his 
friend, yet because of the man's boldness he will get up 
and give him  as much as  he needs. So  I say to  you: 
Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; 
knock and   the door   will be   opened to   you." Here, 
"boldness" means  to ask  strongly with  great patience. 
Even when it is hard to ask, we  must not shrink back, 
nor be discouraged. 
  Jesus says  in Luke  18:1,  "You should  always pray 
and not give up." Therefore, as the  man strongly asked 
his neighbor  for bread  for  his friend  at midnight,  so 
should we   strongly ask.  Though  we hear   "No," we 
should keep on pleading over and  over again. A widow 
came to the unjust judge and said with the plea, "Grant 
me justice against  my adversary."  She came over  and 
over again and pleaded with him. As a result, the judge 
answered her plea.  Likewise, if we  want to pray  from 
the depths of  our heart  and not just  from our  minds, 
we must ask earnestly. Furthermore, if we want to pray 
heartily, we should have strong desires. We need to pay 
undivided attention. That is, we should have one goal in 
our   hearts  mixing   all   our   desires,  sorrows   and 
resentments. If  we  pray on   and off,  the prayer   will 
mean nothing.
  Luke 18:7-8 says,  "Will not  God bring about  justice 
for his   chosen ones,  who  cry  out to   him day  and 
night?" Here we can see strong desire.  We should pray 
with a burning  desire. Hence,  we have  to continue to 
pray until  we can  have faith  from the  depths of  our 
heart. The  prayer of  knowledge will  never defeat  the 
devil. The  Scripture  says, "Whatever  you  ask for   in 
prayer, believe  that you  have received  it."  It tells  us 
that if  we  have clear  goals  from the   depths of our 
heart, pray   simply and   plainly, plead  repeatedly  and 
frequently  and   pray with   fervent  desires,   we  will 
destroy the  demon. Then  we'll be  convinced  that we 
have received   answers and  we'll  have peace   in our 
hearts.   Anxiety,   uneasiness  and   hopelessness   will 
disappear. If we  pray wholeheartedly, we  will be  filled 
with God's peace and his conviction.
  John 14:13 reads, "I will  do whatever you ask  in my 
name, so that the Son  may bring glory to  the Father." 
It tells  us  about earnest  prayer.  In Mark  9:23  Jesus 
says, "If you can?  Everything is possible  for him who 
believes." When   we have   confidence through  fervent 
prayer, we can do everything with that faith.
  John 7:38   says, "Whoever   believes in   me, as  the 
Scripture has  said, streams   of living water  will  flow 
from within him." If we pray heartily, we'll win and the 
work of the  Holy Spirit  will overflow from  within us. 
Prayer from our  minds and that  of our hearts  is very 
different. The  prayer from  our minds  will pass   away 
like the   wind, but   the prayer  from  our  hearts will 
spring from   the depths   of our  heart,  as  the  water 
overflows from  the river,  and it  will defeat  the devil 
and reach  the throne  of God.  So we  have to  cherish 
strong dreams, considering things that are not as if they 
were. The Bible says, "Whatever you ask for  in prayer, 
believe that  you have   received it." Though   we don't 
see, hear, nor  feel any  clue, we must  believe that  we 
have received it. This is the faith of Abraham. His faith 
has become a really good example.
  Romans 4:17-18   states, "As  it  is written:   'I have 
made you a father of many nations.' He is our father in 
the sight of God, in whom he believed -- the  God who 
gives life to the  dead and calls  things that are  not as 
though they were.  Against all  hope, Abraham  in hope 
believed and so became the father of many nations, just 
as it had been said to him, 'So shall your offspring be."
  In verses 20 and 21,  it says, "Yet, he  did not waver 
through unbelief regarding the promise of God,  but was 
strengthened in his faith  and gave glory to  God, being 
fully persuaded that God had power  to do what he had 
promised." Likewise, faith is apart from the age 100 like 
Abraham or 90 like his wife. Once we pray heartily and 
receive an  answer  from God,   though no  evidence to 
count on is seen, heard and  felt, we must have fervent 
dreams, accepting things  that are not  as if they  were. 
This sums up faith:  considering things that  are not as 
though they were, we have to think, see, speak and act. 
This will take  place after  we pray  fervently from the 
depths of our  heart as the  Lord says. When  we pray, 
we should always remember the Bible's teaching, "Faith 
comes from love."  That is  to say,  if we have  hatred, 
faith will go away. That's why if 
we are reconciled  with God and  have overcome hatred 
and have forgiveness  and love in  our hearts, our  faith 
will become great.

  What is  faith?  Faith is  to  believe in   God who is 
revealed in Jesus  Christ; to  confess the  Word of  God 
with  our  mouths   boldly; to   believe  that  we   have 
received; to have fervent dreams and confess them with 
our mouths. Would you please repeat what I say? "Faith 
is to believe God's grace shown  in Jesus; to confess it 
with our mouths;  to pray heartily  and believe that  we 
have received,  calling  things that  are  not as  if  they 
were; to think, speak and expect with  strong dreams in 
our hearts." The Bible says, "According to  your faith it 
will be done to you."

-Prayer-
  Holy God, our Father of great love. As our Lord gave 
His disciples the instructions on faith under the  fig tree 
at the mountain of olives, so I  have delivered the same 
thing to the  saints of  Yoido Full  Gospel Church.  Our 
Father, God,  we thank  you for   teaching us all  about 
faith through the Lord.  Faith is to believe  God's grace 
manifested in Jesus Christ, to  confess with our mouths 
without compromising, to pray wholeheartedly  and have 
confident  faith  and  dream,  think,  speak  and   expect 
things that are not as though they were. Then the Lord 
will say, "What you  believe will be  done to you."  Our 
Father,  let  us  accept   all about   faith  as  the  Lord 
instructed us, meditate  on it,  think it  over and  put it 
into practice,  so that  we  may experience  your power 
and authority in our lives.  Unshackle us from the devil 
and let us  destroy the power  of darkness, so  we may 
enjoy good health,  that all may  go well with  us, even 
as our souls are  getting along well.  We pray in  Jesus 
name. Amen.
