Sunday, Febrary 14th 1999
Title : Labor in Vain
Scriptures Reading : Ps 127 :1-2

  Suppose a farmer works very  hard in the field but  a 
severe drought  or a  flood  comes and  ruins his   field. 
Then his   hard work   will be   in vain.    Suppose a 
businessman works   very hard   with his   firm but   a 
recession comes and  bankrupts his  business. Then  his 
hard work will  be in vain.   We know from  our life's 
experience that   our heavy   work does  not  guarantee 
success.  

  Proverbs 16:1 says, "To man  belong the plans of  the 
heart, but from the Lord comes the reply of the tongue." 
Proverbs 16:9 also says,  "In his heart a  man plans his 
course, but the Lord determines his steps." All the work 
of man, if  it is  not accompanied  by the  blessing and 
permission of  God, will  be in  vain. Today's  scripture 
clearly teaches us about this truth.

  First, unless  the Lord  builds the  house, its  builders 
labor in vain. God, who created heaven and earth, builds 
houses.  Didn't  He build  the  house of  the universe? 
Genesis 1:1  says,  "In the   beginning God  created the 
heavens and   the earth."   The universe   is the  house 
where God works. God created  all things. He wants  to 
build  houses.  Eden   was the   house  that  God  built 
Himself. It was  a house  that God  prepared for  Adam 
and Eve. God  builds houses  Himself. Canaan  was the 
house that  God built  for  Israel. God  built Canaan  so 
that the Israelites could  serve God and  live there. God 
also builds the eternal kingdom of new heaven and new 
earth for   us. God  wants  to build   houses and  takes 
delight in doing so.  Man also builds houses  throughout 
man's life. According  to the  Bible, man  builds houses 
from birth  until death.   All the people   on earth build 
houses either on sand or on solid rock. We build houses 
all the time. We get married and build homes.

  As Genesis  2:24 says,  "For this  reason a  man will 
leave his father and  mother and be  united to his wife, 
and they will become one flesh," man forms a home and 
thus builds a house. We  also build houses of  economic 
activities such  as jobs  and businesses,  without  which 
we cannot   live. We   also form   a society  and  build 
houses in the society and, then, form a nation.

  Acts 17:26   says, "From   one man   he made   every 
nation of men, that they should inhabit the whole earth; 
and He determined the times set for them and the exact 
places where they should live."  People gather and form 
nations according to God's plan--the times set for them 
and the exact places where they should live. While  God 
wants to  build houses  for us,  so many  people follow 
secular humanism   and want  to build   houses without 
God. When   we build  houses  without God,   we must 
remember the lessons of the Babel tower. 

  People gathered   in Shinar  and  began to   build the 
Babel tower  after the  Flood. They  wanted to  build a 
tower that  would reach  to the   heavens, so that  they 
might survive any other flood. They also didn't want to 
be scattered over the face  of the whole earth,  although 
God had  commanded man  to scatter  over the  face of 
earth. They made bricks and  baked them thoroughly to 
build a  tower.  However, God  did  not allow   them to 
build it   by themselves.   Unless the   Lord builds   the 
house, people's   labor will  be in   vain. Therefore,  we 
must   build   houses  with   God   in   order   to   live 
successfully. We  should  not work   alone--without the 
help of God. God  wants to build  houses and He  takes 
delight in doing so.  

  Therefore, we  should commit  our lives   to God and 
build houses with God. The  Bible describes God as the 
potter and we as  the clay. When we  leave the clay in 
God's hands, He will make a beautiful vessel out of the 
clay. 

  Isaiah 64:8 says,  "Yet, O  Lord, you  are our  Father. 
We are  the clay,  you are   the potter; we  are all  the 
work of your hand."  When we leave  our lives to  God, 
He will make them beautiful as a potter makes beautiful 
vessels.  Think of our homes.  If God is  in our homes, 
we  will   make beautiful   and   happy homes,   loving, 
honoring and  cherishing one  another.  When we  serve 
God in our homes and  seek first His kingdom  and His 
righteousness,  God  will  bless  us  abundantly  in  our 
homes and we will prosper in spirit and in body  and in 
circumstances. God will pour His  life abundantly on us, 
too. 

  Psalm  115:14-15  says,  "May  the  Lord   make you 
increase, both   you and  your children.    May you  be 
blessed by the  Lord, the  Maker of heaven  and earth." 
Deuteronomy 28:2-6 also says, "All  these blessings will 
come upon  you and  accompany  you if  you obey   the 
Lord your  God: You  will be   blessed in the  city and 
blessed in the country. The fruit  of your womb will be 
blessed, And the crops  of your land  and the young  of 
your livestock--the calves of your herds  and the lambs 
of your flocks.  Your basket  and your kneading  trough 
will be blessed. You will be  blessed when you come in 
and blessed when you go out." This is the blessing that 
we will  receive when   we build the  house  with God. 
When we serve the Lord, He will be with  us and bless 
all the things we  do. We must  build the house  of our 
jobs or businesses  with God, too.  If we eliminate  God 
from our jobs or  businesses, they would be  empty and 
meaningless. They  will  bring pain   and sorrows only. 
However,  if   we seek   first   His kingdom   and  His 
righteousness  by  observing  the  Lord's  day  and  by 
giving whole tithes  to God,  He will  be with our  jobs 
and abundantly bless us.

  Proverbs   13:22  says,   "A   good  man   leaves   an 
inheritance for  his  children's children,   but a  sinner's 
wealth is stored up  for the righteous." When  we serve 
God and become good men, God  will bless us so much 
that we   will leave  an  inheritance  for our   children's 
children. If  God is  our partner,  how can  anything go 
wrong?  Human  partners  can  not  guarantee  success.   
However, if God,  who has  all the authority  of heaven 
and  earth,  becomes  our   partner, we   are bound   to 
succeed in  everything we  do. In  building nations  and 
countries, we need God, too.  Only when God is  with a 
nation, its  people  can have   righteousness, peace,  joy, 
faith, hope and love. If God is not with a nation, justice 
and truth will  not be with  the nation. It  will be filled 
with corruption and dishonesty and is bound to collapse. 

  Deuteronomy 15:5-6 says, "if only  you fully obey the 
Lord your   God and   are careful   to follow  all  these 
commands I am  giving you  today. For  the Lord  your 
God will bless  you as He  has promised,  and you will 
lend to many  nations but will  borrow from  none. You 
will rule  over  many nations  but  none will  rule  over 
you." When  God builds  a nation,  it will  be  so much 
blessed that there will be  no poor people and  they will 
lend to many nations  but will borrow  from none. Why 
are we  going through  an economic  crisis these  days? 
That is   because we   turned away   from God,   living 
arrogantly on   our own.   Unless the  Lord  builds  the 
house, its  builders will  labor in  vain.  We must  build 
houses of private  lives, homes, groups  or nations  with 
God. We must  pray, "Father,  build my  home yourself. 
Build and  run this   job and business.  Let  this nation 
always walk  with you."  We should  not be   foolish to 
turn  away   from God   and,  thus,   be  forsaken  and 
destroyed. 

  Second, unless  the Lord  watches over  the city,   the 
watchmen stand guard in vain. No matter how hard the 
watchman guards the city, if  God does not watch  over 
it, it can  collapse any time.  Think of  Babylon. It was 
the strongest country  in history.  King Nebuchadnezzar 
built the country and its splendor  was at the climax in 
the  days  of   Belshazzar, Nebuchadnezzar's   grandson. 
Belshazzar employed  many soldiers  to guard   the city. 
He gave a great  banquet for a  thousand of his  nobles 
and  drank  wine   with them.   While  Belshazzar  was 
drinking his wine, he  gave orders to bring  in the gold 
and silver goblets that they  had taken from the  temple 
in Jerusalem, so that the king and his nobles, his wives 
and his  concubines  might drink   from them. As   they 
drank the   wine, they  praised  the gods   of gold  and 
silver, of  bronze, iron,  wood  and stone.  Suddenly the 
fingers of  a human  hand appeared   and wrote on  the 
plaster of  the  wall, near   the lampstand  in the  royal 
palace. The king watched the hand as it wrote. His face 
turned pale  and he  was so  frightened  that his  knees 
knocked together   and his  legs  gave  way. The   king 
called out for wise men of  Babylon to read the writing 
or tell the  king what it  meant but  they couldn't. The 
queen told him that Daniel was still alive and would tell 
the  king  what   the writing   meant.  So  Daniel  was 
brought before the king and gave interpretations. 

  He said, "The inscription was written: MENE, MENE, 
TEKEL, PARSIN. Mene: God has numbered the days of 
your reign and brought  it to an  end. Tekel: You  have 
been weighed on  the scales and  found wanting. Peres: 
Your kingdom is  divided and  given to the  Medes and 
Persians."  Although  Belshazzar   had his   city  tightly 
guarded with   all his   splendor and   wealth, since  he 
ignored and despised  God, his kingdom  was destroyed. 
That very  night Belshazzar,   king of the   Babylonians, 
was slain, and Darius the Mede took over the kingdom.  

  We know from history that man's effort to guard  the 
city will  be in  vain unless   God watches over  it. No 
matter how   hard North  Korea tries   to make  atomic 
bombs and missiles to destroy us, if God is with us and 
protects us,  their  schemes will   be in vain.   God will 
become our protection, chariot and horse of fire. 

  Man tries   to protect  many things--health,   position, 
fame and wealth.  However,  unless God protects  them, 
we may be  stricken by a  disease or lose  position and 
fame. We see many such examples around us from TV, 
Radio or newspapers.  Ecclesiasts 5:13-16 says,  "I have 
seen a grievous  evil under the  sun: wealth hoarded  to 
the harm  of its   owner, or wealth   lost through some 
misfortune, so that when he has a  son there is nothing 
left for  him. Naked  a  man comes  from his   mother's 
womb, and   as he   comes, so   he departs.   He takes 
nothing from his  labor that  he can carry  in his  hand. 
This too is  a grievous  evil: As  a man  comes, so  he 
departs, and what  does he gain,  since he toils  for the 
wind?" Although we may  succeed in business,  we will 
leave  this  world   with bare   hands.  Wealth,   if not 
accompanied by God's blessings, is meaningless. 

  The same  is true  with our  homes. We  need God's 
protection. People think that all they want is  to make a 
lot of money  by all means  and give  it to their  wives 
and  children   but  it   will  bring  more   despair  and 
corruption.  Better the little that the righteous have than 
the wealth  of many  wicked. Wealth,  position or  fame 
that is   not accompanied  by true   happiness does  not 
mean anything.  Unless a  nation  is protected  by God, 
man's effort  will  come to   nothing. South  Korea has 
been under constant  threats by  North Korea since  the 
Korean War. However,  thanks to  God's protection, we 
are living in safety. If God had not  protected us, and if 
we   had  trusted   something   else,  we   might  have 
collapsed. God protects us. 

  If God protects a city,  it will never be  ruined. When 
Elisha was  in Dothan,  Ben-Hadad, the  king of  Aram, 
sent a  strong force   to capture him.    They went by 
night and surrounded the city. When the  servant of the 
man of   God got   up and   went out   early the   next 
morning,   an  army   with  horses   and  chariots   had 
surrounded the city. "Oh, my  Lord, what shall we do?" 
the  servant   asked.  "Don't  be   afraid,"  the   prophet 
answered. "Those who are with us are more than those 
who are with them." And  Elisha prayed, "O Lord, open 
his eyes  so he  may see."  Then the  Lord opened  the 
servant's eyes, and he looked  and saw the hills  full of 
horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha.  

  God can send His  angels to protect and  help us any 
time.  He will send His angels and  they will lift us up 
in their hands, so that we won't strike our  foot against 
a stone. Therefore,  when we trust  God, He  sends His 
angels to us. Why are there so many angels in heaven? 
God sends His angels to help those who are saved.
 
  When we look to God and trust  Jesus, the watchman 
of our  lives will  come to  us through   the cross. The 
watchman   of  forgiveness   and  righteousness   comes 
through the  cross and  protects us.  The  watchman of 
heaven and the Holy  Spirit comes and encamps  around 
us. The watchman of  joy comes and  fills us with joy. 
The watchman  of good  health  protects us  with good 
health and cure.  The watchman  of grace and blessing 
comes and gives us  the grace of  Jesus Christ and the 
blessing   given  to   Abraham.    The  watchman   of 
resurrection and  heaven  comes and   protects us  from 
death. When we  look at  Jesus and  trust Him, by  the 
grace of His torn body and shed blood on the cross, He 
will send watchmen and  protects our spirits,  souls and 
bodies. 

  Third, the Bible says  that God grants  sleep to those 
He loves. The  Bible says, "In  vain you rise  early and 
stay up  late,  toiling for   food to  eat." However,  God 
grants sleep to those who build the house with God and 
watch over the city with God.   Sleep means peace and 
rest.  

  Psalm 116:7-8  says, "Be  at  rest once  more, O   my 
soul, for the  Lord has  been good  to you. For  you, O 
Lord, have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from 
tears, my feet from stumbling." The peace that is  given 
to those who  call God,  "Father," is  enormous because 
God is omnipotent, omniscient,  omnipresent, eternal and 
never changing.  If God protects us, we can have peace. 

  Psalm 90:1-2 says, "Lord, you have been our dwelling 
place throughout  all generations.  Before the  mountains 
were born or you brought forth the earth and the world, 
from everlasting to everlasting you  are God." Since our 
Heavenly Father is our dwelling place, and since we are 
His children,  we  will have   peace. Whoever  calls the 
name of the Lord can have peace. 

  Moreover, he  who accepts  Jesus as   his Savior has 
even bigger peace.   Jesus is  the hand  of the  love of 
God. Since God  so loved  the world  and He  gave His 
one and only  Son, Jesus  Christ is  the hand  of God's 
love. He who accepts  Jesus as the  Savior is accepting 
God's love. When God's  love is with us,  He will care, 
keep, and protect us with His  endless love.  Love does 
us no harm.  

  John 17:26 says,  "I have  made you  known to them, 
and will continue to make you  known in order that the 
love you have for me may be in them and that I myself 
may be in them."  God's love that  is manifested in the 
love of Christ is within us. Jesus also promised that He 
would be with us. Since the  Bible declares, "Never will 
I forsake you. Never will I leave you," we don't need to 
be afraid.  

  Philippians  4:6-7  says,  "Do  not  be  anxious  about 
anything, but in everything, by prayer and petition, with 
thanksgiving, present  your  requests to   God. And  the 
peace of God,  which transcends  all understanding, will 
guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus." God 
gives overflowing  peace to  those  who trust  God and 
Jesus, seeking first His kingdom and  His righteousness. 
He gives them sleep and rest, because He takes care of 
their lives.  

  If God is with  us, who can  be against us?  He who 
did not spare his own Son,  but gave him up for  us all 
-- how  will he  not  also, along  with him,   graciously 
give us  all things?  Therefore, seek  first His  kingdom 
and righteousness and strongly trust God.  

  Everybody builds  houses, either  on  sand or  on the 
solid rock.   Everybody  watches over   a city  but we 
don't know when the city will collapse.  Only when we 
build houses or watch over a city with God, we  can be 
peaceful and   can sleep  sound.  Therefore,  our prayer 
should be like this. "God, help  me build a house of  my 
home, business and the nation with you. Protect all that 
I have achieved.   Protect my  home, my  business, my 
life and my nation."  When we trust  God, He will  take 
care of us. The Bible  says, "Commit your ways  to the 
Lord and God will take care of  them."  We can rest in 
peace by   the omnipotent,  omniscient and   omnipresent 
power of God.  We should not follow the foolishness  of 
atheists or the arrogance  of the pride.  We must serve, 
praise and give thanks and glory to God in Christ. Then 
God will work for us. 
