Sunday, Febrary 28th 1999
Title :Joy and Suffering
Scripture Reading : Heb 12:1-2

  We see optimistic people who smile all the time. They 
overcome various trials  of  life fairly well.  Those who 
always smile and have joy in their hearts can have easy 
lives. On the  other hand,  those who seldom  smile but 
feel always gloomy  with pessimistic  viewpoints cannot 
overcome trials well.  They often  wander in  the pit  of 
trials and face pain and destruction.  

  Joy gives the power to  overcome suffering. We must 
take chances to experience joy all the more when things 
get rough. Joy is the best medicine to help us come out 
of trials.  Now that  people and  the whole  country are 
gloomy and in distress due to economic crisis,  we must 
find joy in our hearts. When we have  joy, we can gain 
the  power to overcome any trial.

  The Bible   speaks of  Jesus' experience   of joy  and 
suffering. When Jesus was about 30 years old, He came 
to the Jordan to be baptized by John. As  soon as Jesus 
was baptized and went up out of the water, heaven was 
opened, and  He saw the  Spirit of God descending  like 
a dove and lighting  on Him. And a  voice from heaven 
said, "This is  my Son,  whom I  love; with  Him I am 
well pleased."  Through  this experience,  Jesus became 
enraptured. He received indescribable   joy in His heart. 
He was publicly declared  to be God's  Son, whom God 
loved and with whom God was well pleased.  

  Since Jesus had this great joy in  His heart, He could 
overcome the temptations  of the  devil after  fasting 40 
days and 40 nights, being led  by the Holy Spirit. Since 
the great joy of His  encounter with God possessed  His 
soul, He  didn't care  about  the temptations.  He easily 
overcame them. Even  Jesus,  the  Son of  God, gained 
power to   overcome trials   and temptations   from His 
experience of great  jubilation at  the Jordan  River. We 
are amazed at the suffering of Jesus Christ on the cross 
and His victory.  However, there  is one  thing that  we 
don't know  very  well. It   is His  experience of  great 
jubilation before He was  crucified. On His  last journey 
to Jerusalem,  Jesus took  His disciples   to a mountain.    
He took  with Him  Peter,  John  and  James,  and led 
them up a high mountain by themselves. There He  was 
transfigured before  them. His  face shone like the  sun, 
and his clothes became as white as the light.  Just then 
there appeared  before them   Moses and Elijah,  talking 
with  Jesus.  Moses  represented  the  Law   and Elijah 
represented the prophets. They  were reporting to  Jesus 
that Jesus  would go  to Jerusalem,   that He would  be 
crucified   in accordance with God's will, that He would 
save all man through His torn body and His shed blood, 
and that He would be resurrected on the third day.  

  The disciples were  so surprised   that Peter  said to 
Jesus, "Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, I 
will put up three  shelters--one for you, one  for Moses 
and one   for Elijah."  While  he was   still speaking,  a 
bright cloud enveloped them, and a voice from the cloud 
said, "This is my  Son, whom I  love; with  Him  I am 
well pleased. Listen to  Him!" When the  disciples heard 
this, they   fell  facedown to  the ground, terrified  and 
when they  looked up,  they saw  no one  except Jesus. 
Jesus had another experience of great grace of God  and 
indescribable jubilation. He  was transfigured  to be  the 
same as He  had been  with God  at the beginning.  He 
spoke with Moses and  Elijah. God told  the disciples to 
listen to   Jesus only--neither  Moses  nor Elijah.   This 
great experience made  Jesus fervent.  Since  Jesus had 
this great   joy of   meeting God   on the  mountain  of 
transfiguration, He overcame all  the suffering. He  went 
to Jerusalem and  was forsaken  by His  disciples there. 
He  was  captured  by  His   enemies and   beaten and 
insulted by them  at the  court of  Annas and  Caiaphas 
and at the  court of  Pontius Pilate.  He took  the cross 
and carried it to Calvary.   He was nailed on  the cross 
in the hands  and feet.  He bled and  perspired on   the 
cross and died.  He overcame such  a dreadful suffering 
because He had the jubilation and joy of meeting God at 
the mountain of transfiguration. This  joy gave Him the 
power to bear the  cross. Although Jesus is  the Son of 
God,   He  had   to   experience  great   joy   of  being 
acknowledged  by  God  at  the  Jordan   before  being 
tempted by   the devil  in the   desert. He  also had   to 
experience great joy of meeting God in  the mountain of 
transfiguration before He was  crucified. The same  was 
true with   the disciples.   Since the   disciples had   the 
experience of   great  jubilation, they  could preach the 
gospel in Jerusalem, in  all Judea and   Samaria, and to 
the ends of the world in spite of severe persecution and 
pain.

  After Jesus   died, the   disciples despaired.  All  their 
dreams and hopes were   shattered. They used  to have 
great expectations  when they  followed Jesus.    They 
thought  Jesus  would   establish the   kingdom  of  the 
Messiah and  deliver  Israel from  Rome.  They thought 
that they would reign over Israel  with Jesus, sitting on 
twelve  thrones.  After  Jesus  was  crucified,  all   their 
dreams were shattered.  In addition  to this,  the Roman 
officers and Jewish religious leaders  began to persecute 
them. Since all the followers of Jesus  were supposed to 
be captured and executed, they  had to hide themselves. 
They  were  also   stricken by   the  guilty   feeling of 
betraying Jesus. When Jesus was  arrested by the Jews 
and Romans, they  left Him alone   and fled. They  had 
followed Jesus for three and   a half years, eating  with 
Him and  receiving His  teaching. Although  they swore 
not to betray Him, they failed and fled from  Him. They 
could not stand this  sense of guilt.  They could not  go 
back home, either. They  had left their homes  to follow 
Jesus. Since they had nothing, they could not dare to go 
home. They   were forsaken.   They could   not support 
themselves. They  were in  heavy distress,   since they 
didn't know what to do.

   They gathered  in the  Upper Room  and prayed  for 
about ten  days. When   the  day   of Pentecost came, 
suddenly a  sound like  the blowing   of a violent  wind 
came from  heaven  and filled  the  whole house  where 
they were   sitting. They    saw what   seemed to  be 
tongues of fire that separated and came to rest  on each 
of them.   They sensed  some turbulence   around them. 
The Holy  Spirit  descended   upon them. All   of them 
were filled with the  Holy Spirit and began  to speak in 
other   tongues  as   the Spirit   enabled  them.   They 
instantly realized that  God was  living and  that Jesus' 
death  and  resurrection  was  not   an accident   but a 
profound plan of God to save man and to  give man the 
glory of eternal heaven. They came  to realize that they 
had eternal hope in Jesus and they made up their minds 
to live and to  die for Jesus. They  had overflowing joy 
from their  hearts.  They were   filled with hope.   They 
jumped, cried,   danced and  shouted.  They   could not 
restrain themselves because the joy was too great. Peter 
burst  out   of the   house. Since  it  was  very noisy, 
thousands of people  gathered around  the  house. Peter 
stood up,   raised his  voice and   addressed the  crowd: 
"God has  made this   Jesus, whom you  crucified,  both 
Lord and   Christ." When  the  people heard   this, they 
repented of their  sins and about   three thousand were 
added   to   their   number  that   day.   The   disciples 
experienced the fullness of the Spirit and this experience 
enabled them to boldly  preach the Gospel  regardless of 
the  dangers   that may   come to   them. They   were 
imprisoned and beaten by people  because of the gospel. 
Eleven of them, except John, were martyred but none of 
them betrayed Christ. That was because their experience 
of the Holy  Spirit and utmost jubilation and  joy in the 
Upper Room possessed their lives. This experience gave 
them the spiritual  power to overcome  persecutions and 
trials.

  The  same  was  true   with Paul   the Apostle.   His 
original name  was  Saul. He  was  a zealous   Jew. He 
captured   Christians  and   put   them  in   prison.  He 
witnessed when Stephen being stoned to death. He went 
to the   high priest  and asked   him for  letters to   the 
synagogues in Damascus, so that if  he found any there 
who belonged   to the   Way, he  might  take  them as 
prisoners to Jerusalem. As  he neared Damascus  on his 
journey, suddenly a  light from heaven  flashed  around 
him. He fell  to the  ground and  heard a  voice say  to 
him, "Saul, Saul, why do you  persecute me?" "Who are 
you, Lord?" Saul  asked. "I  am Jesus,  whom  you are 
persecuting," He replied.   

  Saul was  deeply  moved. He   used to persecute   the 
Church and Christians   without knowing the  truth. He 
came to realize that Jesus was Messiah, the Son of God 
and God Himself.  His life  was completely  changed by 
this experience. He became blind and went to Damascus. 
A disciple  named Ananias  was in  Damascus. Ananias 
came and placed his hands on Saul to restore  his sight.  
After this, he changed his name from Saul to Paul. The 
jubilation and joy of  meeting Jesus was so  great  that 
he  dedicated  his   life to   Jesus.  He  used  to   be a 
persecutor but became  an evangelist  to build  churches 
and to  proclaim Christ.  As we  know very   well, Paul 
was beaten by men  many times, was imprisoned  many 
times, was almost dead by  being stoned, and he  had a 
shipwreck.  Although  he suffered  very much  until he 
was martyred in  Rome, he  never betrayed  Christ. His 
great  experience  of   meeting Jesus   on  his  way  to    
Damascus gave him  the power  to overcome  sufferings 
and trials.

  Therefore, we also  need the  experience of  great joy 
and  jubilation   to  lead    successful Christian   lives. 
Without having the  joy of meeting  God, we cannot  be 
Christians, evangelists, or victors.  In order to overcome 
sufferings and   trials of  lives  and to   lead successful 
Christian lives,  we need  the shower  of great  joy and 
jubilation in our hearts. Then, what should we do?

  First, we need  to accept Jesus  as our Savior  in our 
hearts. Jesus is the  source of joy. He took our sorrows 
on Himself and put an end to them on  the cross. Jesus 
Christ is the source  of the joy in  our souls. When  we 
receive Christ as  our Savior  and when we  meet Him, 
we will have overflowing joy in our hearts.

  Psalm 16:8-11  says, "I   have set the   Lord  always 
before me. Because He  is at my right hand, I will  not 
be shaken. Therefore  my heart is  glad and my  tongue 
rejoices; my body also will rest secure, because you will 
not abandon  me to   the grave, nor  will  you let  your 
Holy One see decay. You have made known  to me the 
path of life; you will fill  me with joy in your  presence, 
with eternal pleasures at your right hand."  

  Indeed, God will fill us with joy in His presence, with 
eternal  pleasures   at   His   right  hand.   The  main 
characteristic of Christians  is that we  have the  source 
of joy   in our   hearts. Jesus   is the   source and   the 
fountain of our  joy. When  we have  active relationship 
with Jesus and when we accept  Christ at the center of   
our hearts, we will have overflowing joy. Money  cannot 
buy joy.   Joy does   not come   from fame,  power or 
worldly pleasure. Such things  come and go.   However, 
the joy that comes from Christ becomes  the fountain of 
joy and lasts forever. We need this  joy to overcome all 
the sufferings of life.  

  The Bible says,  "Rejoice in  the Lord  always. I  will 
say it again:  Rejoice!"    It also  says that joy  is the 
power of   life. We   need the  experience  of  accepting 
Jesus--the source of joy--into our lives. 

  Second, we need regular communication with the Lord 
through prayers and reading the word. We need to  read 
the word, kneel and  pray to Christ  everyday when we 
wake up in the morning. Worries, anxieties, restlessness 
and various problems are thrown at  us like dust in the 
air as we live  in the world. Our   souls sometimes are 
weakened and contaminated by them. Prayers wipe them  
away from our lives.  Our prayers remove  all the dust, 
clouds and fog from   our souls. They  will cleanse our 
souls. When   we communicate  with  God through   the 
word and when we cleanse  our hearts through prayers, 
we will    feel overflowing  joy  from our   hearts. We 
should watch out  lest dust  clog our  hearts. We  must 
continue to read  the word and  pray and,  thus, cleanse 
our   souls  to feel  the  joy of  Christ in   our hearts. 
When we  have communion  with Christ,  we will  have 
unceasing joy.  

  Psalm 119:2  says, "Blessed  are  they who  keep His 
statutes and  seek Him  with  all their  heart." We  will 
receive  the  blessing   of joy.   Psalm  119:49-50  says, 
"Remember your  word to  your servant,   for you have 
given me  hope. My   comfort in my   suffering is this: 
Your promise preserves  my life."  When we   read the 
word, we will have hope and the power to preserve  our 
lives.

  Third, the greatest source of  joy is the experience of 
the baptism of fire--the fullness of  the Spirit. We need 
to have fellowship with the Holy Spirit. When the Spirit 
descended upon the  disciples on  the Day of  Pentecost, 
they came out of frustration  and distress and dedicated 
their lives to the evangelistic work   with explosive joy. 
The fullness of the Spirit becomes  the source of joy in 
our hearts. Full Gospel churches  grow more explosively 
than any other churches  because we  receive the Spirit 
baptism and are compelled by the joy from the Spirit to 
preach the gospel and to lead people to church. We need 
this joy. We need to pray to God to receive the fullness 
of the Spirit again and  again. The Spirit should be  the 
source of joy in our hearts.  

  Romans 14:17-18  says, "For  the kingdom  of God  is 
not   a   matter   of   eating   and   drinking,   but   of 
righteousness, peace and joy in the Holy  Spirit, because 
anyone who  serves Christ  in this  way is  pleasing to 
God and  approved  by men."    When the  Holy Spirit 
comes into our hearts, righteousness, peace and joy  will 
overflow from our  hearts. For this  reason, we need  to 
seek the fullness of  the Spirit and should  acknowledge, 
welcome, accept and  trust  Him. Then the fire   of the 
Spirit will fill us with joy.

  Fourth, when we  serve the  Lord with love,  we will 
have overflowing joy  in  our hearts. There  is a hymn 
which says,  "When love   shines  in, joy   will  come.    
Worries will  disappear  and joy  will  come when   love 
shines in." When we  love and are  loved, we will have 
joy. When we are in love with  someone, we are joyous 
and love to spend  time together as  much as  we  can. 
How much more  joy we will  have when we love God 
and are loved by Him! It is more joyous to love than to 
be loved.  

  We will be happy  when we are  loved, but when we 
love other   people, it   gives us  greater  joy.  When a 
husband loves his wife, he will  be happy. When a wife 
loves her husband,  she will  be happy.  When we  love 
other people, we are happy.  We have greater joy  when 
we love others than when we are loved.

  Psalm 91:14-15  says, "'Because   he loves me,'  says 
the Lord, 'I will rescue  him; I  will protect him, for he 
acknowledges my name.  He will call  upon me,   and I 
will answer him;  I will be  with him  in trouble, I  will 
deliver him and   honor him.'"  When we  actively love 
God, His active help will come to our lives. 

   Acts 20:35   says,  "remembering  the  words   the 
Lord Jesus himself  said: `It   is more  blessed to  give 
than to receive.'" When we  love, care for and  pray for  
other people,  we will  be blessed.   We will  have joy. 
The Bible says, "Give, and  it will be given  to you.  A 
good  measure,   pressed  down,  shaken   together  and 
running over, will be poured into your lap. For with the 
measure you use,  it  will  be measured to  you." Since 
we will have  great joy  in our  hearts when  we  love 
others, I pray that you will try to love others instead of 
trying to be loved by others.

  Fifth, we will have joy when we please  others. When 
we make  others sad,  we will   be sad, too.  When we 
blame and accuse  others, dark clouds  will possess  our 
hearts. When we throw dirt at other people, we  get our 
hands dirty first. When  we say bad things  about other 
people, we think of  bad things, first.    When we hurt 
others, we   will suffer.  When  we  speak ill   of other 
people,  we   feel  unhappy.  When we  damage other 
people's integrity, we won't have joy.

  Philippians 2:3-4   says, "Do   nothing out   of selfish 
ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider  others 
better than yourselves. Each of you should look not only 
to your   own interests,   but also   to the  interests  of 
others." When we live  egoistically, we cannot  have joy 
or happiness. When we help  and please other people  to 
make them happy  and successful as  much as  we can, 
we will be greatly rewarded.

  Sixth, when we believe  in the Lord and  expect  His 
blessings, we  will have   joy.  God  who  has all  the 
authority of  heaven  and earth   is our Father.    Jesus 
Christ who loved us so much as to give  His life for us 
is our Savior.  Through Jesus Christ,  God becomes our 
Father and we become His children. Although the whole 
world  may  forsake  us,  God  will  never  forsake  us.   
Although there  is  no one  who  can help  us,  we can 
prostrate  before   Him,  cry  out   to  Him  and   make 
supplications. God is always  with us, making tomorrow 
better than today;  next month  better than  this month; 
and next year better than  this year. When we  think of 
the hope, grace, blessing  and eternal heaven   that God 
gives us, we will have great joy.

  James 1:17 says, "Every good and perfect gift is from 
above, coming  down from  the Father  of the  heavenly 
lights, who does not change like shifting shadows." God 
does not change.  He is  always with us  and wants  to 
give us every good and perfect gift.

  Philippians 4:19 says, "And my God will meet all your 
needs according to His glorious  riches in Christ Jesus." 
Joy comes   to us  when we   leave all  our  cares and 
worries to God. When we have worries,  they will make 
our bones grow  weak. When  we leave  our cares  and 
worries to God, knowing that God is our helper, we can 
have joy in  our hearts.  The Lord says,  "All you  who 
are weary and  burdened, come to  me. I  will give you 
rest." When we leave all the  cares and worries to  God 
and when we are free of burdens, we will have joy.

  The experience of  jubilation and  joy is  like oil  that 
makes wheels  roll.     When we   have joy,  we can 
overcome any trial or suffering. Jesus endured the cross 
for the joy  set before  Him. The  joy coming from  the 
world is accompanied  by bigger sorrow  It cannot  give 
us the power  to overcome   sufferings.  However,  the 
joy we receive from the Lord gives us the power to live 
successfully.  

  That is   why the  Bible says,  "Rejoice in  the Lord 
always. I will say  it again: Rejoice!"  My dear brothers 
and sisters, the joy from the Lord becomes great energy 
to live by at the time of crisis--as individuals, at homes 
and in the society. As long as we rejoice, we won't be 
defeated. As long as we  have joy, we will  not fail. As 
long as we have  joy in our  hearts, we will not shrink 
back. Joy will be the source  of power and will give  us 
the courage to  march forth through  darkness, although 
we cannot hear, see or touch anything.  We can possess 
joy when we are  filled with the Spirit  in Jesus Christ. 
Let us  always pray   to God, "Fill   me with the   Holy 
Spirit and joy.  Pour the shower  of joy on me. Baptize 
me  with  joy."   We must   seek  joy  from   God and 
overcome our destinies and surroundings with it.
