Sunday, June 20th 1999
Title : A Nest of Thorns
Scripture Reading : Deut 32:11-12

  The message I would like to share with you  today is 
titled "The Nest  of Thorns". 
  God often  uses what  nature has  to offer  to "train" 
Christians. We  can see  various passages  in the  Bible 
which likens  the Christians  to the  eagles.  Today, we 
shall learn about  God's way by  observing the  process 
of hatching and the growth of the eagles.
  Before an eagle lays her eggs, she first builds a nest. 
Often, the place for her nest is high on a rocky crevice. 
Unlike other birds, the eagle does not use  the common 
twigs to build  her nest. She  uses thorny  vines to lay 
her nest. She  uses  her beak  to break  off the thorny 
vines and stems such  as roses and  uses them for  her 
nest.
Then, she goes and kills  rabbits or doe, tears  off their 
hides and lays them  in her nest  on top of  the thorns. 
With sufficient layers, the thorns do not tear through to 
harm its  inhabitants. She  and her  mate jump  up and 
down in the  nest to make  sure it  is safe. Then,  they 
kill other birds and remove  their feathers to lay  in the 
nest. Once finished,  their nest is as good as a suite  at 
the Hilton or the Chosun Hotel.
  She then lays  her eggs.  Once hatched,  the she  and 
her mate take  turn bringing  back food for  the chicks. 
Day by  day,  their feathers   grow, their  eyes become 
sharper, their beaks harden, and their talons grow. After 
a phase of  growth, when  the mother  eagle feels  they 
are ready   for flight,   she examines  their  wings  and 
shows them  hers. The  chicks look  at her  wings and 
marvel at  her great  wings  and her  powerful strokes. 
For  many days, she shows  them her wings and  flaps 
them to show her power.
  Then one day,  she opens her  wings and coaxes  the 
chicks to get  on them. However,  for the chicks  which 
have become comfortably used to the safety of the nest, 
it is not easily done. They cower at her  coaxing. When 
her continued coaxing fails, she then uses the starvation 
tactic. She and her mate  bring mouth-watering food to 
the nest and  eat them. When  the chicks beg for food, 
they  are  denied.  The  mother  eagle  which   used to 
provide so lovingly  to the  chicks now seem  negligent. 
The chicks have  no choice but  to starve. After  a few 
days, she then opens her wings and coaxes them to get 
on her wings.  The bravest  of the bunch  gets on  and 
holds tight. One  by one  the others follow  and get  on 
the wings. Once aboard, the mother takes flight into the 
air as the chicks  hold on for their  lives, observing the 
scene underneath of cities, towns, fields, and mountains. 
Shortly, the mother lands  on a high  boulder and waits 
for her mate to bring a feast for  the brave chicks. The 
chicks eat the food voraciously.  Once finished, they get 
back on the mother's wings  for another flight over the 
world, followed by a feast.
After a few  days, the mother  takes the chicks  on her 
wings  and  climbs  into  the  air,   higher and   higher. 
Meanwhile, her mate  flies low  over the  ground. Once 
high up in  the  air,  the mother folds  her wings.  The 
chicks fall  like dead  weights.  But shortly,  the chicks 
open their  wings  and attempt  to  beat them  with  all 
their  strength.  As  they   continue to   fall,  the  mate 
catches them  one by  one. Then,  the  chicks are  once 
again taken up  higher and  higher, only to  be dropped 
again. And as  they flap   their wings  again, they  are 
caught by   the mother.  This  training takes   place all   
morning, followed by a feast  upon the boulder. After  a 
short rest,   the training  restarts. Those   chicks which 
learn to fly return to the nest while those which do not, 
drop to  the ground and die. The training of  the eagles 
is a matter of life and death.
  God has said in the Bible that  He trains His children 
much like   the eagle  trains  her  chicks. God   led the 
Israelites to the  land of suffering,  Egypt. At  the time, 
Joseph was  a  high official  who  was favored  by  the 
Pharaoh and his family of 70 members  were allowed to 
be   rooted  in   the   most  fertile   region,   the  most 
comfortable nest, Goshen.  They were treated  extremely 
well and prospered  into a nation.  With the passage  of 
time and changes in Egypt which led to a Pharaoh who 
did not  know of  Joseph  and his  deed, the  Egyptians 
began to fear that the continued growth of the Israelites 
into a great nation may lead to  Egypt's harm. All of a 
sudden the comfortable nest began to unravel.
  Four hundred years  after their move  into Egypt, the 
Israelites were deprived of their free use of Goshen and 
they faced a great persecution  from the Pharaoh. Much 
like the mother  eagle which  tears apart  the safe  nest 
removing the  soft  feathers and   the protective  animal 
hides, to expose  the thorns, coaxing  the chicks  to get 
on  her  wings,  God  at  times  also  removes  all  the 
comforts of our safe nest according to His will. Just 
as the chicks have no  choice between sitting in  a nest 
of thorns or  getting on the  mother's wings,  today, as 
God turns our safe nest to one of  thorns, there is none 
who do not get  on the wings as  God coaxes us. Why 
would the Israelites,  having become comfortable  in the 
land of Goshen, want to leave that safe  nest when God 
decided it was time to take them to Canaan? Egypt was 
where they  ate well  and lived  well, why  would they 
want to leave  it? As such,  God willed the  Pharaoh to 
remove  all  the  comfortable   feathers, the   safe hide, 
turning Egypt into a nest of thorns. 
  For construction works  to build great  structures, the 
pharaoh forced the  Israelites to do  various hard labors 
of carrying heavy construction loads, making bricks, and 
farming to feed the laborers. Futhermore, he ordered the 
midwives to kill  all male new-borns.  Faced with  such 
unimaginable suffering,  the Israelites  cried out  to God 
Who opened His wings to catch them. That very set of 
wings was Moses. God sent Moses to the Israelites and 
coaxed them to get  on His wings. There  was no hope 
in Egypt. It was  a nest of thorns.  God desired to lead 
them to another land and used Moses as wings to carry 
them  there.  As  their  suffering  was  unbearable,  the 
Israelites followed   after Moses,  and  riding on   God's 
wings,  they  witnessed   great miracles   such  as  the 
parting  of the  Red Sea  as they  headed for  the land 
where milk and honey flowed.
  However,  once   away  from   the  nest,  a   training 
followed; a training of faith and a training of obedience. 
Although the Israelites  rode upon  the wings  of power 
and authority of  God, they  were trained  in the desert 
for  the  next  forty   years. While   God desired   their 
training, the Israelites did not want  to take flight. Until 
the end,  they rebelled  and failed  to obey  God as  He 
willed.
  It is written in Deuteronomy 8:2, "Remember how the 
Lord your God led you  all the way in the  desert these 
forty years, to humble you  and to test you in  order to 
know what   was in  your heart,   whether or  not you 
would keep his commands."
  It is  written in  Numbers  14:22, that  God lamented, 
"Not one   of the   men who  saw  my  glory  and the 
miraculous signs I performed in Egypt and in the desert 
but who disobeyed me  and tested me  ten times-" The 
Israelites refused to  take flight.  They refused  to obey 
and trust God,  but rather,  wanted to return  to Egypt. 
As God failed  to bring  them to  obedience through  40 
years in  the desert,  He abandoned  them. Just  as  the 
mother eagle in the end lets the chicks  which refuse to 
fly to  fall  and die,  all  Israelites who   walked out of 
Egypt died in the desert. Their descendants were led by 
Joshua and Caleb, to enter the land where the milk  and 
the honey flowed.
  You must realize that when God desires to lead us to 
a new land,  He removes the  soft feathers of  our nest 
and turns it into thorns. When  your home, business, or 
life becomes a one of thorns, it  is time for you to look 
toward the world of faith.  It is time for you  to get on 
God's wings and depart from where you are.
  I had a wonderful childhood. As  you all know, I was 
born in   South Kyung-sam   Province, Ook-ju  district, 
Saang-naam ward...At the time,  my grandfather was  a 
land-owner. During   the Japanese   rule, we  were  the 
wealthiest in our village. I was one  of the best dressed 
kids in our school. However, after the independence and 
land reformation,  my grandfather  lost  all the  land he 
had owned.  On top  of that,  he  ran for  congress but 
failed, bringing   financial ruin.  Then the   Korean War 
broke out. 
  As the  battles  ensued feverishly   around where  we 
lived, we   had to   abandon our  homes  and  move to 
Pusan. There, my life took a new road, toward hardship. 
As Korea and  Koreans suffered  through the aftermath 
of the Korean War,  I was afflicted with  the last stage 
of tuberculosis. I coughed  up blood and fainted.  At the 
time I had a great dream  to become a scientist, a man 
of skill.  I  was a   student of "Industrial   Study" High 
School in Pusan majoring in machinery. I was a diligent 
student. I can remember clearly  how I studied. I would 
use various tools to cut  and make various things, even 
now I  can  remember the   names. I  had a   dream to 
become   a  great   machinist  and   a  great   scientist. 
However, there was nothing but a nest of thorns.
  One day, God had  come and took away  my family's 
nest, removed  all the  feathers and  gave us  a nest  a 
thorns. Tuberculosis is a  nest of thorns.  My family in 
ruin,  me  with   tuberculosis, there   was  nothing  but 
despair, death   was the   only door.  My  family  knew 
nothing about   God. For  generations,  my  family was 
Buddhist, and   becoming a  Christian was   unthinkable. 
However, as I lay at my death  bed, an open wing was 
presented to me. Someone  told me about Christ.  I was 
dying, what   did I  care about   family tradition?  With 
death at my heal, I turned to Christ.  As such, I got on 
the great wings. Once I  had faith in Christ,  I clung to 
God and called out.
  By chance,   I met   a man   named Tyes,  a  former 
marine turned  evangelist. As   he was in   search of a 
translator, I volunteered  and even  before I was  healed 
of the tuberculosis,  I toured  with him  to crusades  all 
across the country. Then, I came across Pastor Louis B. 
Richard who took a great interest  in me and urged me 
to go  to Seoul  and enter  a school  of theology.  Upon 
their urging,   I came  to  Seoul  and entered   the Full 
Gospel Theology school. During my study at the school, 
I met a fellow student Pastor Choi Ja-shil. At the time, 
I was 20 years old and she was  42. She was the same 
age as  my  mother was.  At  school, I  was  the class 
president, and she was in  charge of witness group.  As 
such, every Saturday, we  took our Bibles  and went to 
the Pagoda Park to witness there.
  After   our    graduation   and    with   the    mutual 
understanding, we began  a church in  Bul-gwang area. 
This was God's  way of  turning my  nest into  one of 
thorns without the soft feathers so that I who was from 
a family of Buddhists could accept  Christ and walk the 
life as His  servant, quite  unimaginable otherwise.  God 
carried me  on His  wings to   lead me to  become His 
servant.
  As I headed the pioneer church, God trained me many 
times by dropping  me from  great heights.  Although I 
shed countless tears from the hardship  of the faith and 
obedience training, in  the end,  I learned how  to fly.  I 
learned how to have  faith, I learned  how to obey,  and 
through his grace and  love, I have to  this day for the 
past 41 years, have been His servant.
  In my  observations through  the long   years, I have 
come to learn that  before God blesses  you, He always 
disrupts your  safe nests.  For you   to take  one more 
step, God ruses in  and turns the nest  which you have 
become so  used to  into  one of  thorns and   suffering. 
Having turned the  nest into  one in  which you cannot 
even move, God asks  you to trust Him  and urges you 
to come. He opens His great  wings for you. He invites 
you to a new world. When your nest of thorns becomes 
one of  unbearable  suffering and   discomfort, and  God 
opens His great wings to you,  I  pray that you get on 
it. He will take you to a new nest, a new world.
  Once the mother eagle  teaches her young  to fly and 
become independent, there is one more training left. She 
teaches her young in the art of avoiding storms. Having 
sharp eye sight, the eagle can see a storm coming from 
a long distance.  When a  heavy storm  approaches, the 
mother eagle takes her young to a cliff and makes them 
stand on the  edge.  She makes them open  their wings 
and look up to  the sky. Not  long after, they  can hear 
the thunder  and feel  the fierce  wind and  rain hitting 
upon their  wings. Then  the mother  eagle  signals her 
young to let go of their foot-hold. As the  young eagles 
let go of  their hold,  they are  swept up  by the  fierce 
wind of the storm and carried straight up to the sky in 
an instant. In  a blink of  an eye, the  eagles are above 
the clouds where the sun  showers them with its warm 
rays. Where   the eagles  are  the  sun shines   brightly 
while below   a fierce  storm  rages with   thunder and 
lightening. While the   heavy rain  turns to  floods and 
houses are  washed away  causing  great disasters,  the 
family of eagles glide in comfort above the clouds. Once 
this last training  is complete,  the mother  eagle forces 
her young eagles to depart from the nest, to make their 
own.
  All of us have received training  from our Lord Jesus 
Christ, but  there  is one  last  training which   remains. 
Christ is training us now  to avoid the great  tribulation 
which is to come, so that we may all gather in front of 
God. When we look upon this  world today, we can see 
many signs   of the  coming of   the great  storm. The 
imminent storm   is approaching  all of   us. The  great 
tribulation which   is fast  approaching can   be avoided 
through being filled with the Word of God and with the 
Holy Spirit.  As we  stand on  the edge  of this  world, 
God helps  us to  gather our  hearts and   wills to love 
God, and to lift up our heads toward Him as we live.
  The world is full wars and rumors  of wars. Drought, 
earthquakes and famines are spreading to more parts of 
the world. There are wars called 'ethnic cleansing', and 
the  blood   of man  flows  evermore  through  various 
conflicts. Everyday, the world becomes more  difficult to 
live in. As  all of you  know, these days  you can't eat 
anything. Because of greed, we can't eat beef, we can't 
eat pork, we can't  even drink water without  fear of it 
being contaminated.
  The last great  storm is approaching.  Very soon,  the 
unified Europe will  become a  great power. Very  soon, 
that Europe will dominate world economy, world politics. 
Then the   seven year  treaty  will be   negotiated with 
Israel. Once  done, the  great tribulation   will begin for 
this  world.  However,   before this   tribulation  comes, 
Christ trains us to look up toward the sky and takes us 
up to  it with  the wind  under our   wings. Christ will 
descend from  Heaven accompanied  by  the trumpet  of 
the Lord and  those who  died in Christ  will be  raised 
first, and  the  living will  be  transformed to   rise and 
meet Christ  in the  air.  As the  world is  thrown  into 
chaos with nations warring one  another, people fighting 
one another, and all in  complete despair and death, we, 
the eagles, will be soaring high above the clouds. Didn't 
Christ mention so often in the Bible? Christians will not 
be where death rampages, but while the world  dies, we 
shall follow Christ above  the storm to  Heaven and we 
shall join in  the seven  year feast,  even as  the world 
suffers chaos during that  seven years. After  the seven 
years, we  shall return  to this   world with Christ,  we 
shall drive  out all  the demons  and Satan,  and Christ 
will establish   the New  Millenium.  During  the  seven 
years, there will be no  harm, no hunger, no  illness, no 
wars. There will be no deaths.
  After   having  established   the  thousand   years  of 
paradise,  God  will  establish  the  New  Heaven,  New 
Earth. As such, just  as the eagle  prepares a fine  nest 
for her   chicks with  animal  hides  and feathers,   God 
takes care of us so  that we may be  well in all things 
as our spirits are made well. But, to take our faith up a 
level, to   bless us   the more,  to  take  us to   a new 
blessing,  you  must  remember  he   will disrupt   your 
comfortable  nest.  God  removes   all the   feather and 
comforts turning  into  a one  of  thorns in  which  you 
cannot even  move. Then,  He  tells us  to get   on His 
wings. 
  You will see the signs.  Someone will witness to  you 
as your  guide. At  such  times, we  must get   on that 
wing. When God desires non-Christians  to become one, 
he disturbs their comfortable nests, turning into nests of 
thorns. When   they lose  their  jobs,  become  ill, their 
families  break  apart,   their nests   turn  into   one of 
suffering, then   God opens  His wings   for them.  God 
sends them witnesses who  urge them to accept  Christ, 
repent and be saved, to get on God's wings. When they 
bravely leave their nest and get on His wings, they are 
taken to a new world. The new world of His blessings, 
the new world of love. 
  Even as Christ  leads us  from one  blessing to  next, 
He trains  us. He  trains us  by  dropping us.  Through 
such training and tests God  helps us to trust in  Christ 
and to obey so that we may  fly on our own using our 
own wings  of  faith and   obedience. Then,  before the 
tribulation, we shall rise above the world  and avoid the 
seven years of chaos as we share in the marriage feast 
with Christ and receive  our awards, then finally  return 
to this world with Christ. 
  The mother eagle, our Lord Jesus Christ, is here with 
us today, now. He is leading us to victory. Some of you 
are sitting in a nest of thorns. Some of you have gotten 
on the wings, some of you have already taken flight up 
to  Christ   and  now   are enjoying   great   lives  and 
happiness with Him.  Our Lord trains  us this way  like 
the eagle,   and then   finally, take   us to  the  Eternal 
Kingdom. 

-Prayer-
  Oh, God of love, our most Holy Father, we thank you 
for watching over us as the mother eagle  watches over 
her young chicks.  Oh Father  God, help  us to  become 
ones who leave the  nest of thorns,  get on your wings 
in complete trust  and obedience, to  share and be  with 
you always.  Help  us to  not  cower in  our  old nests 
struggling to  remain in  this world  of unbelievers.  Oh 
Father God, we thank  you for forcing  us to leave  our 
nest of thorns so that we may be given a better future, 
to a vast  new world. As  you had  made the Israelites 
leave their nest  of thorns,  make us leave  our nest  of 
thorns of unbelief,  leave our  nest of  thorns of  failure 
and disappointment. We thank you  for coaxing us unto 
Your wings. Help  us to soar  the heavens with  Christ, 
help us to eat  and share our  lives with Christ.  In the 
final days, lead us to your Eternal  Kingdom.  I pray in 
the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
