Sunday, September 12th 1999
Title : The Lord  Prepares a Banquet  Table Before 
Me
Scripture Reading : Ps 23:5

A woman   was much   troubled by  someone  and  felt 
terrible. Thinking of taking  revenge night and day,  she 
happened to read Romans 12;19-20 saying, "Do not take 
revenge, my friends,  but leave  room for  God's wrath, 
for it is  written: 'It  is mine to  avenge; I  will repay,' 
says the   Lord. On  the  contrary:  'If your   enemy is 
hungry, feed him;  if he is  thirsty, give him  something 
to drink. In doing  this, you will heap  burning coals on 
his head.'" As a result, she left her revenge to God and 
had great peace in her heart. I once read that testimony. 
While we live on this earth,  we meet with big or  little 
enemies. What will the Lord think of them and how will 
He act?
  Psalm 23:5 says,  "You prepare  a table before  me in 
the presence of my  enemies. You anoint my  head with 
oil; my cup overflows."

  First, when we stand before foes, the Lord will  never 
abandon nor leave  us, but  He comes  and is  with us. 
Where they attack us, there  is the Lord, our  Shepherd, 
with us. We  should not  look at  the enemies  who are 
against us but the Lord Who is for us, then  we can be 
comforted  and   strengthened  by   Him.  Since   Elisha 
received God's revelation and  helped the king  of Israel 
keep the   armies of   Ben-Hadad king  of  Aram  from 
invading Israel, they  always failed.  The king of  Aram 
was enraged  and ordered   his whole army   to capture 
Elisha. Then  Elisha was   spending a night  in  Dothan 
with his  servant. On  hearing  that news,  the king   of 
Aram had   his entire   army besiege   Dothan. Elisha's 
servant got up early, went out and was scared. Because 
he saw the flags and spears of Aram all around Dothan. 
He rushed   to Elisha  in the   room and  said,  "Elisha! 
Elisha! We  really  are in   trouble! We  won't survive. 
Dothan is   besieged by  the  Arameans!"  Then, Elisha 
said, "Why are you afraid? Those  who are with us are 
more than those who are with them." Elisha  prayed, "O 
Lord, open  his eyes  so he  may see."  Then  the Lord 
opened the servant's eyes,  and he looked  and saw the 
hills full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. 
Elisha   prayed  to   God,  "Strike   these  people   with 
blindness." God at once struck them  with blindness and 
they followed  Elisha to  Samaria, the  capital of  Israel, 
where they   were all  captured.  According to   Elisha's 
request, the king of  Israel gave them  bread and water 
and let them go back home. For  a long time after that, 
the Arameans   didn't break   into Israel.  Likewise,  no 
matter what enemies  may besiege us,  we must realize 
that our God surrounds us  against them. When we  are 
before foes, He will never leave us alone but He will be 
with us.
  John 10:11-15 tells us, "I  am the good shepherd. The 
good shepherd  lays down  his life  for the   sheep. The 
hired hand is not the shepherd who owns the sheep. So 
when he sees the  wolf coming, he  abandons the sheep 
and runs  away. Then  the wolf  attacks the   flock and 
scatters it. The man  runs away because  he is a  hired 
hand and cares  nothing for the  sheep. 'I am  the good 
shepherd; I  know my  sheep and  my sheep  know  me 
just as the  Father knows  me and  I know  the Father 
and I lay down my life for  the sheep.'" Jesus said that 
He would lay down His life for the sheep.  He said that 
though the wolf  came and  other shepherds  would run 
away, He wouldn't but  lay down His life  and sacrifice 
Himself for the sheep. That's why  although adversaries 
attack us, we don't have to fear at  all. For the Lord is 
with us at all times.

  Second, through this Psalm we have to know that the 
Lord prepares  a table   for us in  the  presence of  our 
enemies. What does this  table symbolize? It symbolizes 
a banquet table. When foes are to steal, kill and destroy 
us,  the  Lord  prepares  a  food  table  for  us  in  the 
presence  of  them.  Why  does  the  Lord  prepare  the 
banquet table? Because He  is to cook  adversaries. Our 
Lord prepares a table before foes and cooks them  to let 
us enjoy tasty food of triumph. Take David for example. 
When he went to  comfort his brothers who  fought the 
Philistines, a champion named Goliath came out and was 
threatening the Israelites.
  In  1  Samuel   17:8-11, we   read,  "Goliath  shouted, 
'Choose a man and have  him come down to  me. If he 
is able   to fight  and  kill  me, we   will become   your 
subjects; but if  I overcome him  and kill him,  you will 
become our subjects and  serve us.' Then the  Philistine 
said, 'This day  I defy the  ranks of Israel!  Give me a 
man and   let us   fight each   other.' On   hearing the 
Philistine's  words,  Saul  and  all  the   Israelites were 
dismayed  and   terrified."  At   Goliath's shouting   the 
Israelites were frightened, so they shrank back and were 
in a  hurry to  hide themselves.  Then, David  asked in 
great anger, "Who  is this uncircumcised  Philistine that 
he should defy the armies of the living God?" Like this, 
David boldly   resisted Goliath.   For he   knew that   if 
enemies came, God would be with him and before  them 
He would make delicious food using them that he might 
enjoy it. Since  David knew  that our  Lord would  deal 
with enemies, he went toward Goliath with strength and 
boldness. He took five smooth stones and put them into 
the pouch of  his shepherd's  bag. Then he  took out  a 
stone, slung it  and struck  Goliath on  the forehead, so 
Goliath  died.  David  drew  Goliath's  sword  from  the 
scabbard, cut off his head and raised it up. Then all the 
Philistines were puzzled, ran away, and Israel triumphed.
  Likewise, our God set a table in the presence of  foes, 
caught Goliath  and cooked  food.  Then God  let David 
and Israel enjoy  the food.  The Bible  says, "The  Lord 
prepares a   table before   me in   the presence  of  my 
enemies." Today, if  adversaries come,  God is with  us, 
sets a table and cooks using them so we can have food. 
For the sake of David,  God cooked  food using Goliath 
and let  David eat  the food.  We  know well  that God 
worked with fiery furnace  before King Nebuchadnezzar. 
The king set up a 30 meter gold  image on the plain of 
Dura and summoned all the civil and military officials in 
Babylon. When music  was played,  he had all  of them 
bow down to the  gold image. Yet,  Shadrack, Meshack, 
and Abednego didn't  move nor bow  though they were 
the governors of Babylon. They sincerely kept the Word 
of God saying, "You  shall not bow down  to the image 
of  idols."  Hearing  that,  King  Nebuchadnezzar   was 
enraged.
  We see  that in  Daniel 3:13-15,   "Furious with rage, 
Nebuchadnezzar   summoned  Shadrach,   Meshach   and 
Abednego. So these men were  brought before the king, 
and Nebuchadnezzar said to them, 'Is  it true, Shadrach, 
Meshach and Abednego, that you do not serve my gods 
or worship the image of gold I have set up? Now when 
you hear the sound of the horn,  flute, zither, lyre, harp, 
pipes and all  kinds of  music, if  you are ready  to fall 
down and worship the image I made,  very good. But if 
you do not worship it,  you will be thrown  immediately 
into a blazing  furnace. Then what  god will be  able to 
rescue you from  my hand?'" Then  Shadrach, Meshach 
and Abednego said, "If  so, our God is  able to save us 
from it. But even if He doesn't, we will  not serve your 
gods." They knew  that when  they were  with enemies 
God would  be with  them  and prepare  a table   before 
them  in  the   presence of   foes.  Furious   with rage, 
Nebuchadnezzar had Shadrach,  Meshach and  Abednego 
thrown into the furnace heated  seven times hotter than 
usual. However, he was amazed, for he threw three men 
in the furnace but  there were four men  dancing in the 
fire. He said, "Look! I  see four men walking  around in 
the fire,  unbound and  unharmed, and  the fourth  looks 
like a son of  the gods." King  Nebuchadnezzar shouted, 
"Shadrach, Meshach   and Abednego,  come  out!  Come 
here!" And they came out of the fire but they were  not 
scorched, nor  was a  hair  of their  heads singed.   God 
prepared  a  banquet  table   in the   presence  of  their 
enemies   and  made   food   with  the   furnace.   King 
Nebuchadnezzar  intended  to  burn  and  kill  Shadrach, 
Meshach and  Abednego, but  God made  the furnace  a 
banquet  table  for   them, so   they  triumphed.  Before 
Shadrach, Meshach  and Abednego,  the king  knelt and 
accepted God in heaven. We  also see the work  of God 
performed with the  lions' den before  the Persian  king, 
Darius. In time of King Darius, Daniel was one of three 
administrators.  He  was  so  competent  that  the  king 
planned to set him over the whole kingdom. At this, the 
other administrators and satraps envied  him and plotted 
to have him  snared and killed.  They said to  the king, 
"O King   Darius, please  prohibit  all  the people   from 
bowing down   to any  god. Only   the king  should be 
worshipped during the next thirty days and have anyone 
who rejects  it  be thrown   into the  lions' den."   King 
Darius  agreed  and   sealed it   with  his  signet  ring. 
Knowing that,  Daniel opened   the window and  prayed 
toward Jerusalem   three times   a day.  For  that  they 
accused Daniel to the king.
  We read  that in  Daniel 6:13-16,   "They said to  the 
king, 'Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah, pays 
no attention to you, O king, or to the decree you put in 
writing. He  still prays  three times  a day.'   When the 
king heard   this, he   was greatly  distressed;  he  was 
determined to rescue Daniel and made every  effort until 
sundown to save him.  Then the men went  as a group 
to the king  and said to  him, 'Remember, O  king, that 
according to  the  law of  the  Medes and   Persians no 
decree or edict that the king issues can be changed.' So 
the king gave  the order,  and they brought  Daniel and 
threw him into the lions' den.  The king said to Daniel, 
'May your  God,  Whom you  serve  continually, rescue 
you!' "Daniel was  accused and  thrown into  the lions' 
den, but God changed the  lions' den, his enemy, into  a 
banquet table. He sent  an angel to shut  the mouths of 
the lions.  The next   day, King Darius   said to Daniel 
with a   sad look,  "Has  your God,   Whom you  serve 
continually been  able  to rescue  you  from the  lions?" 
Daniel said,  "O king,   live forever! My  God  sent His 
angel, and He shut the mouths of the lions that I might 
not be  hurt." The  lions' den   was the food  that God 
prepared in  the  presence of   foes. Daniel  enjoyed the 
food of the lions' den and had a great victory. Through 
this story, we can see that God  prepares a table in the 
presence of   our enemies  and makes   food for  us by 
using them.   The God,   Who dealt   with Goliath,   the 
furnace of Nebuchadnezzar and the lions' den of  Daniel, 
is now with us  and fights our  enemies. Though North 
Korea tries to steal, kill and  destroy us, as long as we 
have 12  million Christians,   50 thousand churches   and 
100 thousand servants  of God  who are praying,  North 
Korea will be destroyed by God.  With the battle at the 
West Coast,   the Lord   prepared a   table and   cooked 
wonderfully with the North Korean ships. Our God is an 
excellent cook.  He cooks   everything well so   that we 
may eat delicious food.

  Third, God  makes food,   lets us enjoy   it, and then 
anoints us with oil so we look greater than  others. The 
Scripture says, "You anoint  my head with  oil; my cup 
overflows."  Anointing  means  exalting.   The Israelites 
became kings, priests  and prophets  by being  anointed. 
After David  fought Goliath,  God exalted,  anointed and 
made him a king over  Israel. Unless Goliath had  come, 
David would have been just  a shepherd in the country. 
Yet, since Goliath  came, David  enjoyed food  made by 
God. As a result, God  anointed David and made  him a 
king of Israel.
  Therefore, to David, Goliath's  invading Israel became 
the source of a great blessing.  If Goliath hadn't broken 
into Israel, David  would never  have eaten the  food of 
Goliath and God wouldn't have anointed him so his  cup 
overflowed. Hence, we should know that facing  enemies 
is  a  great  blessing  to  us.  Shadrach,  Meshach  and 
Abednego had the fiery furnace and got higher positions 
in Babylon.   Amazed and  impressed to   see Shadrach, 
Meshach   and   Abednego   survive   in  the   furnace, 
Nebuchadnezzar repented   of his   sin and   believed in 
Yahweh, God, and he promoted them.
  Daniel 3:29-30  says, "  'Therefore, I  decree that  the 
people of   any nation  or language   who say  anything 
against the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego be 
cut into pieces and their  houses be turned into piles  of 
rubble, for no  other god  can save in  this way.'  Then 
the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach and  Abednego in 
the province of Babylon." When enemies come, the Lord 
cooks using them so we eat. As a  result, He exalts us. 
Daniel had  the food  of the   lions' den and  became a 
prime minister   in the  kingdom  of Persia.   The other 
administrators who falsely  accused Daniel were  thrown 
into the lions' den with  their families. And before  they 
reached the floor of the den, the lions overpowered them 
and crushed   all their  bones. However,   though Daniel 
was in the lions' den,  God turned the den  into a table 
that Daniel might enjoy  a great triumph. At  last, what 
happened to him? God anointed and exalted him.
  Daniel 6:27-28 reads, " 'He rescues and He saves; He 
performs signs   and wonders  in the   heavens and  on 
earth. He  has rescued   Daniel from the  power  of the 
lions.' So Daniel  prospered during  the reign  of Darius 
and the reign  of Cyrus the  Persian." King Darius  was 
moved so much that he repented and accepted God. And 
God promoted Daniel to prime  minister so he ruled  the 
foreign country during the reign of Darius and the reign 
of Cyrus.
  The Bible says, "You prepare a table before me in the 
presence of my enemies.  You anoint my head  with oil; 
my cup   overflows." Although   adversaries come,  God 
cooks them   so we   may eat  food.  As  a result,   He 
anoints us  with oil  and exalts  us that  our cups  may 
overflow.  For  God  finally  grants  us   victorious and 
successful lives.
  John 10:10 tells us, "The thief comes only to steal and 
kill and destroy; I  have come that  they may have life, 
and have it to the full." If thieves come, Our Lord cooks 
with a knife using them, lets us eat  food and exalts us 
that our cups may overflow.
  We read  in 1  Corinthians 2:9-10,  "As it  is written: 
'No eye   has seen,  no  ear has   heard, no  mind  has 
conceived what  God has  prepared for  those who  love 
Him' -- but  God has revealed  it to us  by His Spirit. 
The Spirit searches all  things, even the  deep things of 
God." Although we don't see, hear nor understand what 
God prepared, God always gives us a victory.
  Luke 11:11-13  also says,  "Which  of you  fathers, if 
your son asks for a fish, will give him a snake instead? 
Or if he asks for  an egg, will give  him a scorpion? If 
you then, though you are  evil, know how to give  good 
gifts to your children, how much more will  your Father 
in heaven give the Holy Spirit  to those who ask Him!" 
Whenever we face  troubles, God sends  the Holy Spirit 
so that we may be the head, not the tail; at the top, not 
at the bottom; lend to others, not borrow from any. It is 
natural that we don't  want to run into  enemies in our 
lives. If possible, it would  be the best that  we are not 
confronted with foes. However, regardless of our wishes, 
we may  be  attacked by  adversaries.  No matter   how 
honest, sincere and  faithful we  may be,  there will  be 
enemies around us,  who are  to steal,  kill and  destroy 
us. We  don't know  what to  do to  them, but  at that 
time, we  should  boldly trust  in  our Shepherd,   Jesus, 
who is  with us,   and we have   to put our   faith into 
practice   without  compromising.   Why?  Because   our 
Shepherd, God won't leave us when our foes  come, but 
He'll appear to be with us in order to resist them. Then 
our Lord before enemies, will set a table, draw a sword, 
pierce their arms and legs,  cut off their heads,  and He 
will offer us a banquet table. Without foes, we won't be 
treated to a banquet table. If enemies come, God will be 
sure to give us a table in the sight of him. Foes will be 
cooked by God. Therefore. we should not take revenge.
  For the   Lord says,  "It  is mine   to avenge;  I  will 
repay." That's why  we have to  leave enemies  to God 
and should  not curse  them  but bless  them. For   God 
must repay.  The God,  Who  overwhelmed Goliath,  the 
fiery furnace and  the lions' den,  is with us  today and 
also defeats our enemies. Foes know nothing and attack 
us, but our Shepherd will  fight them, cook and  prepare 
a banquet   table so  we  may have   victories. Without 
Goliath, how  could  David triumph?  Without  the fiery 
furnace,  how  did  Shadrach,  Meshach  and  Abednego 
become such great believers? Unless Daniel was thrown 
into the lions' den, how did  King Darius recognize God 
and promote Daniel to prime minister? So you must not 
forget  that  enemies  are  the   means by   which God 
anoints and   exalts us   that our  cups  may  overflow. 
Likewise, Our God grants us  great victories and makes 
us prosperous   on account  of foes   so our  cups may 
overflow. When enemies come,  there will be  a banquet 
table  so  we   will be   promoted  and  our  cups   will 
overflow. In all things God works for the good of  those 
who love him,  who have been  called according  to His 
purpose. Would  you repeat  after me?  "You  prepare a 
table before  me in  the presence  of my   enemies. You 
anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows." Those who 
have no shepherd will  be torn, scratched  and eaten by 
foes,  but   Our  Shepherd,   Jesus,  is   with  us.   The 
Shepherd, Jesus, will never abandon us nor leave  us. In 
order to conquer enemies,  the Shepherd, Jesus,  died on 
the cross, shedding  His blood  and rose  and became a 
Winner. Therefore, if we are with the Lord,  He appears 
before our foes and deals with them by His omniscience 
and  omnipresence,  so  we   may triumph,   be exalted 
among people by the Holy Spirit and  our cups of grace 
and   blessing   may   overflow.   That's   why   it   is 
inexpressible how  happy  are those  who  accepted our 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ,   as their   Shepherd.  Those   who 
believe in Jesus don't have to fear enemies while  living 
on this earth. For they are our meals. 

-Prayer-
Let us pray together. Our Father, God. While we live in 
the world, whether  we want  or not,  we face  enemies 
who destroy   us in   the competitive  society.  We  are 
nervous  and  intend   to avenge   them  for  ourselves. 
However,  the  Bible  says  that   we should   not take 
revenge but  leave it  to  God. It  says, "It   is mine to 
avenge; I  will repay."   Since the Lord   will deal with 
enemies, make  a banquet  table,  and give  us triumph, 
please help us  not be nervous  nor uneasy  but relaxed 
by leaving them to  You.  Our Father, God,  thank You 
for sending us the Shepherd, Jesus. We are not forsaken 
like sheep  without  a shepherd.   Our Shepherd  always 
leads and protects us with His rod and staff. He  shows 
up before us when enemies come. He cooks  using them 
for us that we may enjoy victories, be  exalted and that 
our cups  may overflow.  We thank  You, Lord,  for  all 
those things. May glory  be to the  Lord forever. When 
our enemy, death,  comes, please  deal with  it, make  a 
table of resurrection for us and exalt  us to heaven. We 
are no longer afraid  of death, for the  Lord will turn it 
into resurrection   for us.  We fear   nothing. The  Lord 
says, "Do not be afraid,  for I am with  you. Do not be 
dismayed, for   I am  your  God." Lord,   please, let  us 
depend on You without being  afraid and dismayed, and 
help us  live, thanking  God. We  pray in  Jesus' name. 
Amen. 

 

