Sunday, July 11th 1999
Title : Why Does God Keep Me at a Distance?
Scripture Reading : Ps 15:1-5

  Today, let   us share  the message   "Why Does  God 
Keep His Distance?" I am often confronted by Christians 
who say,  "Pastor, I  think God  keeps a  great distance 
from me. I don't think God likes  me." I tell them, "God 
so desired   to choose  us  in Christ,   to make  us  His 
children. There is no real  good reason for God to  NOT 
like us." Why would God have  chosen us if He did not 
like us? However, when our lives defy God's nature, we 
drive God   away from  us,  forcing  Him  to keep   His 
distance. At such  times, our  spirits are  frustrated, our 
prayers are   blocked, and  we  suffer spiritually.   When 
such a state is perpetuates, our hearts become hardened, 
a wall  of mistrust  rises and  our spirits   start to lean 
toward the world.  Seeing this,  God reprimands us  and 
we face hardships  and suffering. For  us to  be able to 
enter into  God's sanctuary  in joy  and reside   in Him, 
there must not be any enmity nor struggle between God 
and   us.   Many   Christians   allow   enmity   between 
themselves and   God, leading  to a   continued state  of 
struggle. Then, how  can we  do away  with all  enmity 
between God and us, and live lives of bliss? 
  To do so, we must understand God's very nature and 
live according to that nature.

  First, God's nature  is one of  righteousness. Our God 
is  righteous.   When  we   allow  unrighteousness   and 
corruption to   enter our  hearts,  there  will  be enmity 
between us  and  God. As  we  stand in  front  of God, 
calling Him "our Father", even as  our hearts are full of 
corruption and unrighteousness,  God cannot tolerate  us. 
As such, there only  can arise enmity between  God and 
such a man.  Such a  person must  either come  to God 
and repent of his  sins to remove the  enmity, or accept 
the great distance  between God and  himself, or simply 
submit to God's judgement.
  It is   written in  Romans 2:7-9,   "To those  who by 
persistence   in  doing   good  seek   glory,  honor   and 
immortality, he will give eternal  life. But for those who 
are self-seeking  and who   reject the truth   and follow 
evil, there   will be   wrath and   anger. There  will  be 
trouble and  distress for  every human  being who  does 
evil..." As such, with unrighteousness  in our hearts, we 
cannot keep close  to God.  It goes without  saying that 
God  does   not  hear  the   prayers  of   such a   man. 
Corruption  and  injustice  are  incubators  of  ruin   and 
destruction. 
  An example is  the Sealand tragedy  brought upon  us 
by the corrupt  dealing between the  district government 
officials and the businessmen.  The fire on  the night of 
June  30th,  1999,  took  the  lives  of  23  children  and 
teachers.  This  is  the   very reason   why  God  hates 
unrighteousness and corruption. Being the incubators  for 
ruin and  destruction,  they alway   beget such  tragedy. 
Any person,  society or  nation  of such  corruption and 
injustice will be judged by God.
  The Bible   clearly tells   us that  when  we  abandon 
righteousness, God will abandon us.
  It  is  written  in  Isaiah   33:15-16, "He   who walks 
righteously and speaks  what is right,  who rejects gain 
from extortion and keeps his hand from accepting bribes, 
who stops his  ears against  plots of  murder and shuts 
his eyes against  contemplating evil  - this  is the  man 
who will dwell on the heights, whose refuge will be  the 
mountain fortress. His bread will  be supplied and water 
will not fail him." When we  become blind to this world 
and live in  righteousness, that is  the greatest blessing. 
As long  as  we have  corrupt  and unjust  hearts,  God 
cannot  love  us,  hold   fellowship with   us, nor   even 
tolerate us. We must  realize this and  on a daily  basis, 
we  must  cleanse   our hearts   of  all  corruption   and 
unrighteousness.

  Second, our God is a God of truth. As such, when we 
harbor lies   and trickery  in our   hearts, there  will be 
enmity. When  our hearts   are filled with   untruth, and 
whenever we open our mouths, lies come  forth to cheat 
others. No matter how much  we call out to God  in the 
church, God will not abide  with the likes of  us. As He 
is a God of truth, such  a man only goes against  God's 
nature. Satan is the  father of lies,  always lying. Adam 
and Eve were  judged because  of a lie.  God told  them 
that they could eat all the  fruits in the Garden of Eden 
except the fruit  of the  tree of  the knowledge  of good 
and evil, or that on  that day, they would die.  However, 
Satan told  them that  on the  contrary, if  they ate  the 
fruit, they would open  their eyes and  become like God, 
that they would not die. Satan lied.
  Adam and Eve chose to believe Satan's words leading 
to their fall from God's grace.
  It is written in  John 8:44, "He  was a murderer  from 
the beginning, not holding  to the truth,  for there is  no 
truth  in  him.  When  he   lies, he   speaks his   native 
language, for he is a liar and the father of lies." This is 
Satan's 'profession'. When we  deceive or even  attempt 
to deceive God,  as He  is the Spirit  of truth,  God will 
depart from us.
  We all  know  about Ananias   and Sapphira.  With a 
great revival  in the   Early Church, many  people  were 
moved by the Spirit  to offer their  possessions for God, 
glorifying  Him.  Seeing  this,  Ananias  and   Sapphira 
desired  to   be  praised  by   others.  They  sold   their 
possessions.  Selling   your  possession  is   not  a  sin. 
However, they hid a portion of the proceeds after having 
discussed it.  Then, Ananias   brought the remainder   to 
Peter and  said, "This  is  all of  our possessions."  The 
Holy Spirit spoke through Peter and said, "Ananias, how 
is it that Satan  has so filled  your heart that you  have 
lied to the Holy Spirit  and have kept for yourself  some 
of the  money  you received   from the  land? Didn't  it 
belong to you before it was sold? And after it was sold, 
wasn't the money  at your  disposal?" With  the words, 
Ananias fell  dead.  Then his  wife  also told  the  same 
exact lie leading to the same kind  of death. You cannot 
deceive God. As He does  not keep company with  those 
who lie,  when we  are filled   with deception, the  Holy 
Spirit departs from us and God cannot reside in us. Life 
built on  lies and  deception is  like a  castle built   with 
sand.
  Do you remember  the collapse  of Sung-su bridge  in 
1994 with the death of 32 people? Why did this happen? 
It was shoddy construction with  shoddy inspectors. The 
contractors deceived the people  and the inspectors went 
along with the deception of building a safe bridge called 
the Sung-su bridge  which collapsed. Anything  built on 
such a foundation of  lies and deception will  crumble. It 
is  a  castle  built  on  sand.  Why  did  the  Sampoong 
Department Store  collapse? In  1995,  the collapse  of a 
department  store  caused  506   deaths and   about  940 
injuries, a great tragedy.  This was also  due to shoddy 
construction   and   blind  inspectors.   The   contractors 
deceived  the   people  who   come  and   shop  at   the 
department store, the inspectors were  more than willing 
to look  the other  way, and  the department  store was 
built on  a foundation  of sand,  of lies.  As a  result, it 
collapsed. Any   person, society  or  nation  where  such 
deception is rampant,  will experience  God's judgement. 
Such deception and lies are short-lived.
  Look at Communism. Communism is built on a bed of 
lies. It has not  lasted more than a  single generation; it 
is crumbling. Lies and  deception are not long-lived.  To 
think  they   are is   gravely  mistaken.   Lies are   like 
sandcastles; they  will crumble  sooner or  later. On  the 
other hand,   God is  Truth,  He is   eternal. God  being 
Truth, of course  He does  not listen  to the  prayers of 
those who   have deception   in their   hearts and  utter 
prayers of lies.  When a  man comes to  him in  such a 
manner, of course God will brush such a man away. 

  Third, He is a loyal God. 
  It is written  in Revelation  3:14-15, "To the  angel of 
the church in  Laodicea write:  These are  the words of 
the Amen,  the faithful  and  true witness,  the ruler  of 
God's creation. I know your deeds,  that you are neither 
cold nor hot. I wish  you were either one or  the other!" 
Our God and Christ are loyal. They do not betray us  in 
any way.   There is  not  even  a shadow   of betrayal. 
Those who are selfish, ungrateful and disloyal cannot be 
with God because  it goes  against His nature.  He is  a 
faithful God. He is  a sincere God.  He does not  betray. 
However,   just  because   an  ingrate   man  who   has 
selfishness and disloyalty in  his heart calls out  to God, 
will he be answered?
  Look at Adam. Adam was a man who betrayed God's 
love. God  prepared  this universe  for  Adam and  even 
created the Garden of Eden. God gave enormous love  to 
Adam. However,  Adam turned  his  back on  that love, 
turned his  ears to  Satan  and betrayed  God. Did  God 
tolerate Adam's betrayal? God  chased Adam out of  the 
Garden of Eden.
  Look at the Israelites. With great love, God took them 
on the wings of  an eagle and  led them from  Egypt to 
the land of milk and  honey, Canaan. Once well fed  and 
happy, they abandoned God and began  to worship idols. 
They betrayed God and served Baal and  Asherah. What 
did God do to them? Did God tolerate the Israelites? No. 
The Israelites  were taken  captive, and   they lost their 
land. God  judges those  who  are ungrateful  and those 
who betray.
  Judas Iscariot   followed after   Christ for  over  three 
years. But in the end, he became a traitor, selling Christ 
for 30 silver  pieces. He  lived a  life leading  to eternal 
condemnation. All Christians hate Judas Iscariot. He is a 
traitor. He has become the  very symbol of betrayal. He 
hung himself and had his  stomach torn open. A society 
full of  betrayals  will crumble.  Look  at the  politicians 
today. They come together like this,  and they fall away 
like this. Betrayals are rampant. It is a great mistake  to 
think that  any society  without  sincerity and  love can 
prosper.
  It is written in  Luke 16:10, "Whoever  can be trusted 
with very  little  can also   be trusted  with much,   and 
whoever  is  dishonest  with   very little   will  also  be 
dishonest with   much. God   loves those   who can   be 
trusted. Those who place their lives  before all others in 
selfishness and  greed,  betraying others   this way  and 
that, such a  person, society  and nation will  experience 
God's judgement.  When a  man abandons  his sincerity 
and faithfulness, looking always to betray others  for his 
own gain, God  does not  abide with  such a  man. God 
does not accept  the prayers  of such  a man.  He must 
first repent and fill his heart with sincerity.

  Fourth, God  is holy.  As such,  can a  drunkard who 
indulges in all manner of depravity and immorality walk 
with God? Our God is holy.  Our God is pure. Although 
Korea has a great number of churches, they do not have 
much influence on society.  The reason the  churches do 
not reflect  God's  authority is  because  although many 
Christians call out  to God, many  of them  live lives of 
immorality, depravity and indulgence. Churches have  not 
been cleansed.  As  Christians have  failed  to live  holy 
lives, the churches have lost their influence on society.
  It is written in ICorinthians 3:16-17, "Don't  you know 
that you  yourselves are  God's temple  and that   God's 
Spirit lives  in you?  If  anyone destroys  God's temple, 
God will destroy  him; for  God's temple is  sacred, and 
you are that temple." We are God's  temples. If we turn 
our bodies into a bottle of whiskey, will  God be happy? 
Our bodies   are God's   temples, God   is building   His 
Kingdom in us, Christ resides in  our bodies as King of 
Kings. Should we let Christ swim in  a vat of whiskey? 
As we fill our bodies  with cigarette smoke defiling and 
destroying God's temple, do you think the Holy Spirit is 
happy  sitting   amid  the   smoke? When   morality   is 
destroyed, so   is the  person or   the nation.  We must 
realize God does not keep company with immoral people.
  Why were   Sodom and   Gomorrah destroyed?   They 
angered God for they were  lewd, immoral, and indulged 
in all manners of carnal desire. As a result, God levelled 
Sodom and  Gomorrah  to the   ground. The destruction 
came about through rain of fire and lava from the sky. 
  Why  did   the greatest   empire   in the   history   of 
mankind, the   Roman Empire,   crumble? Although   the 
Roman Empire   was indescribably   strong and  healthy 
during its  younger days,  toward the  end, divorce  rate 
was  skyrocketing,   families were   dysfunctional,  state 
taxes were   exorbitant, people  enjoy savage   sports of 
butchery, along  with the   breakdown of family  values. 
These resulted in  a great breakdown  in morale leading 
to further   destruction. Rome   fell from  within.  There 
aren't that many cases of destruction of empires through 
attacks from  without. The  inner corruption  causes the 
unseen deterioration   which make  even  a  slight  push 
fatal.
  It is written in IICorinthians 7:1, "Since we have these 
promises,  dear  friends,  let  us  purify  ourselves  from 
everything that contaminates body and spirit, peerfecting 
holiness and  of  reverence for  God."  Christ will  come 
very soon.  As the   time draws near,   we must purify 
ourselves from the unholy  things of this  world. For us 
to reside with  God and  be filled with  the Holy  Spirit, 
we as temples must  be pure and holy.  We must never 
forget God does not tolerate an unholy and vile man. 

  Fifth, God does  not tolerate  idolatry. God  commands 
us to never bow down to any idol whether it is made of 
gold, silver, bronze, copper or wood.
  However, the   Colossians 3:5-6   speaks of,   "...greed, 
which is a form of idolatry. Because of these, the wrath 
of God   is coming."  When our   hearts are  filled with 
greed and jealousy, as that is idolatry, there  is no place 
for God.   When a  man  is  overcome with   greed and 
jealousy, he  cannot even  see his  own brothers  or his 
parents let  alone God.   Greed and jealousy  shackles  a 
man and   makes him  prisoner. Lucifer   was the  most 
magnificent of   the angels.  He had   a special  task of 
worshipping  God.   However,  as   greed  and  jealousy 
entered his heart, he desired to be like God. Lucifer was 
cast down by God and was made into Satan.
  It is  written in   Isaiah 14:13-15, "You   said in your 
heart, 'I will  ascend to heaven;  I will raise  my throne 
above the  stars  of God;   I will sit   enthroned on  the 
mount of assembly, on the utmost heights of  the sacred 
mountain. I will ascend  above the tops of  the clouds; I 
will make   myself like  the  Most  High.  But you   are 
brought down to  the grave, to  the depths of  the pit.'" 
Even the angel Lucifer was overcome with jealousy  and 
greed, idolizing himself, which led to his becoming God's 
enemy.
  Even Adam fell  from grace because  of his  greed, to 
become like God. A man  is a man; why try  to become 
a god? Between God  and man, there  is an uncrossable 
chasm. How  can a  created being  become the  creator? 
Such jealousy and  greed has  caused the  fall of  Adam 
and Eve. Greed and jealousy causes a man's ambition to 
over-reach  the  man  and  leads   him astray   to final 
destruction.  Greed  begets  sin  and  sin  begets  death. 
Knowing   your   limitations  and   living   within   that 
limitation is the greatest wisdom.  The reason for which 
many of the high  ranking officials have  gone to prison 
is that  their greed  has  blinded them  and had   caused 
them  to  commit  crimes  for  which  their  lives  were 
destroyed. God does not tolerate those who worship idols 
even the one of greed. We  must avoid worshipping any 
and all idols.

  Sixth, God is Love  and Forgiveness. God loves  those 
who repent and forgives them.
  In Luke   18:11-13, there   is a   Pharisee and   a tax 
collector who enter  the temple  to pray.  The Pharisees 
were   a   group  of   people   who   emphasized   great 
formalities, and  the  Law. The  Pharisee  stood up  and 
prayed, "God, I thank you that  I am not like other men 
- robbers, evildoers,  adulterers - or  even like  this tax 
collector. I fast twice  a week and give  a tenth of all  I 
get." The Pharisees were hypocrites who  were proud of 
themselves. On the  other hand, the  tax collectors were 
sinners as all knew. He  came to God's temple,  beat on 
his own  chest,  could not   dare look toward   God, but 
prayed, "God, have mercy on me,  a sinner." Which man 
does the Bible tell us went home justified? It wasn't the 
Pharisee, but  the  tax collector.   God loves  those who 
repent. When we  repent of  our sins,  God tells  us He 
will make   us righteous,  forgive  us  of our   sins and 
cleanse us. Peter came to  Christ and asked, "Lord, how 
many times must  I forgive my  enemy? Is seven  times 
enough?" Christ  told him  to forgive   his enemy seven 
times in  a day  if he  came and  repented seven  times. 
Then, Christ   told him  to  forgive  him seventy   times 
seven should   the enemy  repent seventy   times seven. 
There is  only one  condition of  repentance attached  to 
forgiveness.  Forgiving   someone  without   his  sincere 
repentance only  encourages him   to commit more   sins 
and crimes. It  is wrong to  forgive a person  who does 
not repent.
  Although Jesus Christ had His body torn on the Cross 
for all men, only those  who repent will be  saved. Only 
those who repent will be forgiven  and receive salvation. 
Those who  don't cannot   be forgiven. It   is the same 
with us.   When our   neighbors commits   some wrong 
against   us,  but   fails  to   come  and   ask  for   our 
forgiveness, God does not  tell us to forgive  even them. 
As God is Love and Forgiveness, when  we also forgive 
our neighbors as they repent and we love them, we can 
abide in God.

  Seventh, God loves those who are  humble and gentle. 
God said the meek shall  inherit this world. God said He 
will raise the humble.
  It is written  in Mathew  5:5, "Blessed  are the  meek, 
for they will  inherit the earth."  We may think  that an 
aggressive person who uses violence with hands  of iron 
would inherit  this  earth. However,  history  teaches us 
that it is the meek,  the gentle who seem  to inherit the 
world and  live in  peace. While  fierce animals  of prey 
must live a hard existence of hunting and escaping from 
the danger of other hunters, such gentle animals such as 
cows, pigs, sheep and chicken enjoy  a rather easy lives 
watched over  by the  farmers.  In a  similar way,   God 
protects the meek and the gentle. God loves the humble. 
God wanted Paul to be humble.
  It is  written in   IICorinthians 12:7-10, "To   keep me 
from becoming  conceited because   of these surpasingly 
great revelations,  there was  given me  a  thorn in  my 
fesh, a mesenger of Satan, to torment me. Three times I 
pleaded with the Lord to take it  away from me. But he 
said to  me,  'My grace  is  sufficient for  you,  for my 
power is  made perfect  in weakness.'  Therefore  I will 
boast all the more gladly about my weeaknesses, so that 
Christ's power   may rest   on me.   That is   why, for 
Christ's sake,   I delight  in weaknesses,   in insults,  in 
hardships, in persecutions, in difficulties. For when I  am 
weak, then I am strong."  God allowed Paul to be  weak 
as to make him humble. God made Paul so he could not 
be proud.   God sent  Satan,  a  thorn to   his flesh,   to 
prevent   him   from   being   proud   of  his   wisdom, 
intelligence, his ability. 
  When we are overcome by  our weakness, we turn to 
God asking Him to help us and drive Satan  away. Only 
then, when we are at  our weakest, we can become  our 
strongest. Remember, God  give this world  to the meek 
as inheritance, and raises  the humble. Christ  raises the 
humble. Look at  the world around  us. It  is the empty 
can which makes more  sound than the  full. It is those 
with  nothing   within  who  are   boisterous  and   long 
winded.  It   is these   "empty"   people who   come   to 
meetings  shouting  out  their  opinions  in  loud  voices 
causing a  riot. People  who are  "filled" within  are not 
like the empty ones. During the crop  harvest, the stalks 
filled with grain are bent downward in a perpetual  bow, 
while the empty stalks  sway this way  and that. While 
the empty stalks  sway to  and fro  trying to  catch the 
attention of  those looking,  it is   the stalks with  grain 
which are favored.
  We see frequently couples who have vowed to remain 
together for  eternity break   apart within a   few years. 
The reason is  usually personality mismatch.  When two 
people are intwined in personality confrontation, love can 
only break into pieces. When we oppose God's nature, it 
is a folly for  us to try  to keep God  at our side.  Only 
when we  repent  and accept   God's nature  to be   our 
guide, could we become those  whom God remains with. 
God doesn't keep  His distance  without a  good reaosn. 
There is no reason  for God to  abandon us. The  seven 
natures of  God I've  told you  today...you  must accept, 
repent and obey.  Only then,  God will pull  us into  His 
arms and  listen to  our prayers,  holding  our hands  to 
guide us.

-Prayer- 
  Oh Father God, take  pity on us and  show us mercy. 
Many of us call  out to you  but live lives far  detached 
from   your    desire.   Our    lives   are    filled   with 
unrighteousness and  deception. We  have betrayed  You 
as we have betrayed our neighbors. Not having holiness 
within us, we are filled with the corruption of this world 
and our  steps are   guided by greed   and jealousy. Oh 
Father God, we hate others  instead of loving them.  We 
are proud  when  we should  be  humble. How  can  we 
oppose Your nature  thus and  hope to  remain in  You? 
How can we  possible hope to  reside in your  dwelling? 
Oh Lord, help us to beat our chests in repentance as the 
tax collector  had done.  Cleanse  us with  the blood   of 
Jesus Christ,   forgive and  break  us  so  that we   can 
become obedient to You, and  can adopt Your nature  as 
our own, that we may enjoy Your love and remain with 
You. Let  our prayers  be those  which can  move You. 
Help  us  so  that   all that   we do   can  bring  about 
wonderous works as  we become the  salt and the  light 
of this world. I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 
