Sunday, December 5th 1999
Title : The Acts of Sinful Nature
Scriptures Reading : Gal 5:19-21

  Man was  created to  live a  spiritual life  by  nature. 
God is Spirit  and man  was made a  spiritual being  to 
have a  relationship with  Him. A  body is  a house  in 
which the   spirit dwells.   It was   just a   vessel that 
submitted to  the command  of the  spirit before  man's 
fall. However,  when  Adam fell  and  was expelled  by 
God, his   spirit died.  In  other words,   his spirit  was 
totally out of  touch with  God. As  a result,  man was 
unaware of the reason and purpose of his existence and 
completely lost the  direction of  his life.  Since he was 
severed from God, he didn't know where he came from, 
what he   was living   for and   where he  was  going. 
Likewise, man  fell to  a physical  being and  became a 
captive to the flesh. Man's body became a  slave to the 
Devil and  was  corrupted. Since   then, man  has been 
caught by all kinds of physical lust.
  In time of the flood of Noah, Seth's descendants who 
called God married Cain's fallen children and fell to  the 
flesh. So the Spirit of God  deserted man and destroyed 
the world by a flood.
  It is described in Genesis 6:1-8, "When men began to 
increase in  number on  the earth   and daughters were 
born to them, the sons  of God saw that  the daughters 
of men were  beautiful, and  they married any  of them 
they chose.  Then the  Lord  said, 'My  Spirit will   not 
contend with  man forever,  for he  is mortal;  his days 
will be  a  hundred and   twenty years.'  The Nephilim 
were   on   the   earth  in   those   days   --and   also 
afterward--when   the  sons   of   God  went   to   the 
daughters of men and had children by them. They were 
the heroes of old,  men of renown.  The Lord saw how 
great man's wickedness on  the earth had  become, and 
that every  inclination of  the thoughts  of man's  heart 
was only evil all  the time. The Lord  was grieved that 
He had made man on the earth, and his heart was filled 
with pain.   So the  Lord  said, 'I   will wipe  mankind, 
whom I have created, from the face of the earth---men 
and animals, and creatures that move along the  ground, 
and birds  of the  air---for I  am  grieved that  I have 
made them.' But Noah  found favor in  the eyes of  the 
Lord." 
  Look at   this Scripture.   God's sons   married fallen 
daughters and became physical  beings. Throwing away 
their spirits, they  changed to  physical beings.  So God 
raged and destroyed those physical men with a flood. It 
was the same  with the ruin  of Sodom  and Gomorrah. 
Its inhabitants were  filled with sins.  God rained  down 
burning sulfur   upon them  from  heaven  and crushed 
them.
  Jude 1:7-8   reads, "In   a similar   way, Sodom   and 
Gomorrah and the  surrounding towns  gave themselves 
up to sexual immorality  and perversion. They serve  as 
an example   of those  who  suffer  the  punishment of 
eternal fire.   In the  very  same  way, these   dreamers 
pollute their  own bodies,   reject authority and   slander 
celestial beings."
  Today, our age  is changing more  and more like  the 
time of Noah. Like in Sodom  and Gomorrah, people are 
growing more sinful. That's why it's getting  very near 
for God   to punish   us. So  we  have  to crucify   our 
physical desires and be  eager to run  for salvation day 
by day.
  We read  in  Jude 1:17-21,   "Dear friends,  remember 
what the  apostles  of our   Lord Jesus Christ   foretold. 
They said   to you,  'In  the last   times there  will  be 
scoffers who   will follow  their own   ungodly desires.' 
These are the  men who  divide you,  who follow mere 
natural instincts and  do not  have the  Spirit. But you, 
dear friends,  build  yourselves up  in  our mostly  holy 
faith and pray  in the  Holy Spirit.  Keep yourselves  in 
God's love  as  you wait   for the mercy   of our  Lord 
Jesus Christ to  bring you  to eternal  life." Then  what 
does it mean by the acts of sinful nature?
  According  to   Galatians, sexual   immorality  mostly 
shows the  acts of   sinful nature. What  is  sexual fall 
like? Galatians says that sexual immorality is sexual fall 
and the acts of sinful  nature. Sexual immorality means 
sexual relations  except through  marriage  or it  means 
prostitution.
  Today,  sexual  corruption   is easily   found  in   our 
society. What we  call prostitution  exploiting youths  is 
prevailing even among young boys  and girls. Originally 
it was a crime committed by using youths in Japan and 
mentioned beautifully.  Also in  our  country, it  is said 
that one of three men has had a  sexual relation with a 
middle school  student.  Men in  their  twenties, thirties 
and forties   are in  lust  with middle   school students. 
Teenagers are vulnerable, sensitive to sex and apt to be 
deceived by money, and adults  tempt and lead them  to 
immorality. It symbolizes that today our country and the 
whole world are turning to physical corruption. We read 
an incident   in the   newspaper saying   that a  middle 
school girl schemed  with a phone  meeting manager to 
make  primary  school  students  have  sexual  relations 
with adults and took away the money they earned. Yet, 
to our surprise, the children caught by the  police didn't 
repent nor feel guilty at all.
  It is reported that there are 400,000 prostitution places 
in our country and people spend about 43 trillion won a 
year on  prostitution. Hence,  we can  see how  awfully 
physical lust is being committed in Korea.  It is a great 
shock and  surprise to  see a  recent  advertisement for 
exchanging married couples put in the internet web site. 
The advertisement   says, "Why   don't we   share our 
wives? We   are sick  and  tired of   the same  wives." 
Many bars, saloons,  amusement parks  and love  hotels 
are being   made here  and there.   Those things  cause 
people to sin  and be  judged by  God sooner.  Recently 
some high school  girls opened a  bar and were  caught 
by the   police. Moreover,  today many   primary school 
students are hired at  bars. There are  about 2,600 bars 
in Seoul and many prostitution places downtown,  which 
plunge people into prostitution and immorality. Likewise, 
we are living in the days of immorality.
  We read   in 1  Corinthians  6:18, "Flee   from sexual 
immorality. All other  sins a  man commits  are outside 
his body,  but he   who sins sexually  sins  against his 
own body."
  We  also  read   in 1   Corinthians  3:17,  "If  anyone 
destroys God's temple, God will destroy him;  for God's 
temple is sacred, and you are that temple."  It says that 
sexual immorality is ungodly.
  Today people   think about   sinful things   more and 
more. We speak of ungodly things a lot. That's because 
demons come into us and  make us think and  speak of 
sinful things. Now  this world is  full of  these demons. 
So people do not hesitate to do evil.
  Ephesians 5:3-4 says, "Among you there must not  be 
even a hint of  sexual immorality, or  of greed, because 
these are  improper for  God's holy  people. Nor  should 
there be obscenity, foolish  talk or coarse joking,  which 
are out  of place,   but rather thanksgiving."  When  we 
immorally think, speak and act, we  have to realize that 
demons make us  fall and we  must sternly drive  them 
out in the name of  the Lord, Jesus. The Scripture  also 
says sinful nature pursues physical lust. Nowadays,  our 
society has sunk into  lust through publications,  videos, 
internets,  TVs   and movies.   Our  circumstances   are 
strongly tempting us to  do lust. There are  about 3,000 
video places  all over  the  country, where  people have 
sexual temptations.  It is  said  that 63  % high   school 
students and  85 %  adults have  been to  video places. 
That's why we can see that video places are sinful.
  According to the national research, lustful  information 
is over 210,000 on PC between January and August this 
year. These  PC inputs  mislead people  to have  sexual 
meetings, destroying their households  and plunging our 
society into lust.  Novels, videos,  TVs and  movies are 
making obscenities  beautiful.  According to  an  inquiry 
made by the US, News  & World Report, two thirds  of 
respondents said   that TV  had  bad influence   on the 
society. It says that TV lascivious programs have made 
extramarital intercourses  increase to  84 %,  impromptu 
sexual relations up to 83%,  sexual fall of youths  up to 
90%, and sexual  crimes up  to 94%.  These days  it is 
reported  that  about  60%  newly  married  housewives 
want to have boy friends.
  Without the help of the  Holy Spirit, all the  world as 
well as Korea will indulge  in lewdness, immorality and 
lust  and   be  punished   with  fire   like  Sodom   and 
Gomorrah. Why will  this world  be punished?  Because 
the whole world becomes sinful. The  Spirit of God will 
leave people.  Since  they are   getting more  and more 
sinful, God can't be with them.
  Colossians   3:5  states,   "Put   to   death,  therefore, 
whatever   belongs  to   your   earthly  nature:   sexual 
immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires and greed."

  Second,  sinful  nature  has  a  relationship  with  the 
Devil. That is,  idolatry. In  the Bible the  first and  the 
second commandments are warning us of idolatry, "You 
shall have no other gods before me.  You shall not bow 
down to idols."  There are  two idols seen  and unseen. 
The former is  the idol  made of  gold, silver,  stone or 
wood, and the latter means something in our hearts that 
we love more than  God and in  which we engross  our 
whole attention.
  Colossians 3;5-6 says, "Greed  is idolatry. Because  of 
these, the wrath of God is coming."
  Ephesians 5:5 also says, "For of this you can be sure: 
No immoral, impure or greedy person -- such a man is 
an idolater --  has any  inheritance in  the kingdom  of 
Christ and of God." 
Today,  many   people devote   themselves  to   political 
power, high positions, fame and pleasure, and bow down 
to them. The Bible says, "You should worship God with 
all your heart, soul and mind." "Seek  first His kingdom 
and His righteousness."  Yet, if we  seek secular greed, 
kneel down and serve it, it will  be grave idolatry. This 
idolatry is sinful nature and will be punished by God.
  Next, sinful nature involves witchcraft: fortune telling, 
sorcery and exorcising  with which  both advanced  and 
underdeveloped countries   are filled.   By 1996,   500,000 
shamans were registered and 11,000 places were allowed 
for  sorcery  and  including  illegitimate  fortune  tellers 
there were a great number of sorcerers.
  Leviticus 20:27  says, "A  man  or woman  who is  a 
medium or spiritist  among you  must be put  to death. 
You  are   to  stone   them." God   never   admits  this 
witchcraft, for it is sinful.

  Third,  the  Scripture  says   that human   discord is 
related  to  sinful  nature.  What  does   human discord 
mean? It  means enmity.  Today, people  make enemies 
with others and aren't reconciled.  If we are to retaliate 
on our enemies,  we commit sin  that God abhors.  And 
strife is sinful. People  dispute with one another  with a 
black  and   white  theory   without  mutual   talk  and 
compromise. They   insist on  their  own  opinions. We 
often see this sort  of dissension in Korean  politics. To 
keep arguing without being reconciled is sinful. God will 
never bless  them. And then, envy  and jealousy belong 
to sinful  nature. They  bring about  lots of  misfortune, 
destruction, frustration and despair. People are jealous of 
others,  slandering   and  defaming.   The  slander   and 
defamer in our Korean society are  caused by envy and 
jealousy. They   are sinful.   The Bible  says  anger  is 
sinful.
  Ephesians 4;2-3   says, "Be   completely humble   and 
gentle; be  patient,  bearing with   one another in   love. 
Make every   effort to   keep the   unity of   the Spirit 
through the bond of peace."
  Philippians 2:5 also says, "Your attitude should be the 
same as that of  Christ Jesus." The  Scripture urges us 
not to get angry but to tolerate others and be humble. 

  Fourth, to be split is  sinful. If we are  not reconciled 
but separated, we  commit sin. Disunion  is made when 
we   don't  cooperate   with  others   but  are   divided. 
Group-selfishness without  considering others  is  sinful. 
People insist only on their own desires and demonstrate 
for their benefit. This disunion is easily found in Korea. 
Since we had the  local self-government system,  it has 
been  very  difficult  to  do   anything. For   their own 
selfishness,  people  rise  and  demonstrate  against  the 
work of the  government. If we  are to build  a church, 
people rise against us and  force us for money.  This is 
sinful. And making factions  is also sinful. People  make 
parties in  a group  and resist  the  others. God  abhors 
factions. For they break solidarity. Korea is divided into 
two parties: the  east and  the west.  Wherever we  go, 
we keenly feel this dissension. This  is a great obstacle 
for which God can't work in Korea. We must not admit 
making parties and factions separating into the east and 
west. This is so sinful that God will certainly punish it. 
Yet, people get  together with those  who are  from the 
same hometown,  the same  school  and the  same clan 
and make  their influential  power.  We must  not have 
these kinds of factions in our nation. If we make parties 
with the  people  from the  same  hometown, the  same 
school and the same clan,  our nation will be  disrupted. 
This is  not the   work of the   Holy Spirit. There   are 
factions even in the church. That's why many churches 
are ruined.   Why is  the  church,  the  body of   Jesus, 
destroyed? Because Satan enters into people and divides 
them.
  Jude 1:19 reads, "These are the  men who divide you, 
who follow mere natural  instincts and do not  have the 
Spirit." Those  who have  the  Holy Spirit  never make 
factions nor are divided,  For the Holy  Spirit makes us 
one unit.   But if   Satan comes  in,  he  gathers sinful 
people  and  makes   them split   the  church   and the 
organization.
  We  read   in  Romans   2:8,  "For   those  who   are 
self-seeking and who  reject the  truth and  follow evil, 
there will be wrath and anger." If we make  parties and 
factions at the church,  the body of God,  He will show 
wrath and be angry and punish us. Since the  church is 
the temple  bought by  the blood  of Christ,  where the 
Holy Spirit dwells,  if we resist  Him, God will  destroy 
us. Besides, dissension  brings heresy  and disrupts  the 
church. The heresy teaches  people falsehood and  greed 
that they  may perish.   Ruining households and   taking 
away possessions,   the heresy  has  tempted people   in 
Korea. 
  We read in 2 John  1:10-11, "If anyone comes to  you 
and does not bring  this teaching, do not  take him into 
your house or welcome him. Anyone who welcomes him 
shares in his wicked work."  Attending the assembly of 
the heresy will not be considered good by God.

  Fifth, the Bible  says that immorality  is sinful.  Then 
what is immorality? It first means  drunkenness. Today, 
men and  women drunkards  are increasing  in number. 
They drink so much that  they commit immoral sins. It 
is  reported  that  our  nation  has  shamefully   become 
number one in  the world  in regards  to drinking.  The 
Koreans are said  to drink  most in the  world. We  are 
also  said  to  smoke  most  in  the  world.  We  spend 
trillions of   won a  year  on  smoking and   have lung 
cancer. Recently, to my surprise, many people who have 
lung cancer come to  me to ask  for prayer. They have 
lung cancer   because of  smoking.  Unfortunately, their 
wives who don't smoke have lung  cancer due to them. 
Because their husbands smoke at home, they  have lung 
cancer. How miserable  they are!  What a  shame! And 
also Koreans die from car accidents  most in the world. 
To our shame, we Koreans are in the first  place in the 
world  in   drinking,  smoking,   and  dying   from  car 
accidents. All  these things  are done  by sinful  nature. 
Through them, the  Bible shows  us our nation  doesn't 
fear God but runs after a sinful nature. Most immorality 
is caused by drunkenness.
  Take a look  at Noah's  drunkenness. His  son, Ham, 
blamed him for  lying bare  for drunkenness, but  Shem 
and Japheth walked  backward toward  their father  and 
covered his  naked body   with a garment.  When  their 
father awoke from his  wine, he was angry  and cursed 
his son Ham's destiny.  He said, "Blessed  be the Lord, 
the God  of  Shem! May   God extend  the territory  of 
Japheth; may  Japheth live  in the  tents of  Shem." He 
also said to Ham  who laughed at  his nakedness, "The 
lowest of slaves  will he  be to  his brothers."  He was 
drunk, yet  he rather  cursed  his son  who laughed   at 
him. Since Noah cursed  as the priest of  his household, 
his son, Ham, lived in slavery.
  That's why Ephesians  5:18 says, "Do  not get drunk 
on wine, which  leads to  debauchery. Instead,  be filled 
with the Spirit." Debauchery  violates the orders  of our 
lives. If  we don't  honor our   parents, that means  we 
ignore the order. It  is written, "Honor  your father and 
your mother, so  that you  may live  long in  the land." 
However, if we  abandon our parents,  it is debauchery. 
This morning I  happened to  see a  TV program,  "Old 
People's Lives." According to the  program, most people 
live nuclear  family lives  and don't  take care  of their 
parents. Few old  people can  afford even  1,000 won  a 
day. Likewise, old people live destitute lives.  For people 
are indifferent to their old parents' lives. When they are 
asked of  their wishes,   they answered, "We   wish we 
could receive  300,000 won  a month  from our  children 
and use 1,000 won a day with our friends." Our country 
doesn't have a  welfare system for  old people, so  they 
have to depend  on their  children. Unless  we care  for 
them, we will lead our lives to debauchery. 
Besides, people don't honor elder ones such  as teachers 
and neighbors   but disregard  them.  It is   debauchery. 
Honor, the social order, is  disappearing and our society 
is filled with only materialism, power, and epicureanism.
  Romans 13:12-14 tells us,  "The night is  nearly over; 
the day is almost here. So let us put aside the deeds of 
darkness and put on the  armor of light. Let us  behave 
decently,   as  in   the  daytime,   not   in  orgies   and 
drunkenness, not in  sexual immorality  and debauchery, 
not in dissension and jealousy. Rather, clothe yourselves 
with the Lord Jesus Christ, and do not think about how 
to gratify  the desires  of the   sinful nature." Now  the 
new millennium  is  coming very   soon and  it is   just 
before Jesus Christ's second coming. To Christians, this 
new millennium  is  very meaningful   in particular,  for 
they will enter into the new heaven, the new  earth and 
new Jerusalem. That's why we must leave sinful deeds 
and lead  our lives  with the  Lord. Hence,  the acts  of 
sinful   nature   are    sexual   immorality,   having   a 
relationship with  the Devil,  human conflict,  disruption, 
and immorality. These  are the  characteristics of  sinful 
nature.
  The Scripture says, "Those who live like this will not 
inherit the   kingdom of   God." God  destroyed  Noah's 
descendants  and   Sodom and   Gomorrah   when they 
became sinful. So  will He  destroy sinful  man that  he 
will not inherit the kingdom of heaven.
  Galatians 5:24  reads,  "Those who   belong to  Christ 
Jesus have crucified the sinful  nature with its passions 
and desires."
  We also read in  1 Peter 4:3-5,  "For you have  spent 
enough time in  the past doing  what pagans choose  to 
do--living  in   debauchery, lust,   drunkenness,  orgies, 
carousing and detestable idolatry. They  think it strange 
that you do not  plunge with them  into the same flood 
of dissipation,  and they  heap abuse  on you,  but they 
will have to give account to Him who is ready to judge 
the living and the dead."  Our faithful lives are to  fight 
against sinful   nature. This  fight  has  been won,   for 
Jesus conquered sinful nature  on the cross.  We as the 
temple should pray,  be filled with  the Holy  Spirit and 
keep on  fighting against  the  Devil and  sinful nature. 
Those who   fight are   alive but  those  who  give up 
fighting are dead.

  Today, many  Christians do   not resist sinful   nature 
but give up fighting and  obey it. They are as  good as 
dead.  However,   those who   do  not   stop repenting, 
praying,  struggling   against sinful   nature  are   alive, 
because their souls are alive. May you overwhelm sinful 
nature and live holy lives, relying on  the cross, so that 
you may   be caught  up on   the day  when the   Lord 
comes. 

-Prayer-
  Dear  God,  our  Father   of love!   We  live  as  the 
descendants of fallen Adam and  sinful nature continues 
to take us to the Devil and the world. Yet, we are born 
again  by  believing  in   Jesus, fight   without  ceasing 
against sinful nature, crucify  it on the  cross and walk 
toward the  kingdom of  heaven.  Today, in  this world 
there are two types of people: sinful  and godly. Father! 
Those who are born again through Jesus overcome  and 
resist sinful  nature.  But unbelievers   follow the  Devil 
obeying their sinful nature. Dear God, our Father! In the 
new millennium, it will be nearer for the Lord  to come. 
However, the   world is  like  the  times of   Noah and 
Sodom and Gomorrah so it  will be judged. Please, help 
us not be judged but turn away from  sinful nature and 
walk with Christ as the godly. In Jesus' name we pray. 
Amen.


