Sunday, June 13th 1999
Title : Suffering and Christian Character
Scripture Reading : Jas 1:2-4

It is awfully hard  and fearful to  go through trials  like 
fire and   water. All  Christians  suffer  from  trials, no 
matter  how  big   or small   the  trials   may be.   For 
Christians can have strong faith through trials. We  hate 
storms at sea because we don't  feel good when storms 
overturn and stir up the water. However, it  is said that 
storms are  needed for  the ecosystem  of nature.  They 
say that   because of  storms, waters   are purified  and 
oxygen is added so that fish and plants may live in the 
sea. Eventually, big  storms bring  life to the  sea  and 
purify nature.
Likewise, trials and suffering  look severe and  awful at 
the moment,  but  later they  bring  refreshment to   our 
souls, minds   and lives.   In a   city in  America,  they 
carried dead fish from the  seashore and tried to  sell it. 
But people wouldn't buy the fish. So  they put seawater 
and the fish  into a tank  and carried them,  but on the 
way the fish became  weak and died.  Yet, there was a 
store in which they always sold fresh fish. People asked 
the storekeeper  how to  keep fish  fresh but   he didn't 
answer. Later he  told the  secret. When he  carried the 
fish, he put the fish and a few catfish  in the tank. The 
catfish tried to eat  other fish and  the fish stayed alert 
so they wouldn't  be eaten.  The fish  were alive  when 
they arrived at the market, because  the fish had stayed 
alert.
Our trials and suffering are like  the catfish. They seem 
to devour us and bring us trouble,  but due to them we 
repent and turn to the Lord so that we can lead faithful 
and spiritual Christian lives. Why do we need trials? Let 
us look at some reasons.

First,  we  need  trials  to  have  a  fragrant,  Christian 
character. You know  how to  make wine and  olive oil. 
People take grape  fruit from  the vine,  wash it,  put it 
into a big pot and step on it. If  we keep stepping on it 
and break it,  sweet juice  will come out  of the  grapes 
and it will become grape juice and wine. If we leave the 
grapes as they are, they  will never become grape  juice 
and wine. They must  be stepped on   and burst. They 
have to be stepped  on so terribly hard.  Then they can 
become sweet   grape juice   and wine.It   is the   same 
process for olive  oil. People take  olives from  the olive 
tree. They have  to grind  or pound  it. Then sweet  oil 
can come out. They use  oil at the temple, for  food, for 
the body, for  making soap, and  so on.  Likewise, since 
grapes and olives can become sweet wine  and oil when 
they are stepped on  and grinded, in the  Bible they are 
often compared to Christian lives.
Therefore, God compares  our Christian  lives to  grapes 
or olives,  for  when we   are stepped  on and  grinded, 
sweet  oil   and  smells  come   out.  Experiences   with 
suffering  bring   us great   changes.   When we   have 
ordinary lives, we just enjoy  our lives and do  not look 
back nor repent.  Yet, when  trials come to  us and  we 
are trampled and troubled, we are broken and repent.
James 5:13 says, "Is  any of you  in trouble? He should 
pray." During my  41-year  ministry, I found  that it is 
trials that changes  saints the most.  If we are  afflicted 
by calamity and disaster, we will repent.
Psalm 34:17-19  says, "The  righteous cry  out, and  the 
Lord  hears  them;  He   delivers them   from all   their 
troubles. The  Lord is  close  to the  brokenhearted and 
saves those who are crushed in spirit.  A righteous man 
may have   many troubles,  but the   Lord delivers  him 
from  them  all."  Hence,  though  a  righteous  man  is 
distressed, if he repents, God will deliver him and  make 
him grow in faith. That's why we  need troubles in our 
lives. In order for us to be  broken and to yield to God, 
trials are necessary.
Hebrews 5:7-9 states, "During the days of Jesus' life on 
earth, He  offered  up prayers   and petitions with   loud 
cries and tears  to the  one who  could save  Him from 
death,  and  He  was  heard  because  of  His   reverent 
submission.  Although   He  was   a  son,   He  learned 
obedience  from   what He   suffered  and,   once made 
perfect, He became the source of eternal salvation for all 
who obey   Him." The  Scripture  tells us   that though 
Jesus, the Son of God,  was blameless and unblemished, 
He learned  obedience from   what He suffered.   It was 
sure that   Jesus had  perfect  faith and   obedience but 
through  suffering   it was   proven  how   faithful  and 
obedient He was. Though He  was the Son of God,  His 
faith and  obedience  were proven by  suffering. That's 
why we   must go   through trials  to  learn  faith  and 
obedience or for them to be proven. Therefore, hardships 
break us and make us yield to God.
And when we face trials,  we become humble and  mild. 
If not, we would be so proud, boast about ourselves and 
depend on our position, fame, money, health and beauty. 
However, if we  face affliction, all  those things will  be 
broken. Then we will become humble and mild.
According to 1Peter 5:5-6, "'God opposes  the proud but 
gives   grace   to  the   humble.'   Humble   yourselves, 
therefore under  God's mighty  hand,  that He  may lift 
you up in due time." To  receive grace and be lifted  up 
by God, we should  first be broken  and humble. To  be 
humble, we must experience suffering.
We also read in  1Peter 1:7, "These  have come so  that 
your faith--of  great  worth than  gold,  which perishes 
even though  refined  by fire--may  be  proved genuine 
and may result  in praise, glory  and honor when  Jesus 
Christ is revealed." Our  afflictions will result  in praise, 
glory and honor. Trials rid us  of filth and arrogance in 
our lives and make us flexible, warm and obedient.
Psalm 119:71 says, "It  was good for me  to afflicted so 
that   I  might   learn   your  decrees."   Before   facing 
hardships, we live  wayward lives,  but after  hardships, 
we deeply repent,  realize and fear  the decrees  of God, 
have interest   in them  and  keep them.   Before facing 
trials, people  don't keep  the Sabbath,  offer tithes,  nor 
worship God. But  after going through  trials, they keep 
the Sabbath, give  tithes, and  devote themselves to  the 
Lord. Likewise, trials come to us  and make us fragrant 
Christians. If a  Christian is fragrant,  mild, humble and 
very  nice,  we   will know   that  he   has had   many 
afflictions before.

Second,  we   need  trials   to  have   strong,  Christian 
character. Iron comes out  after minerals are  put into a 
smelting   furnace   with   limestone.   Yet,   iron    has 
impurities, so in  order for  iron to  be made  into steel, 
they keep melting it  and putting it  into fire and water 
and striking it. Then it  becomes strong steel which we 
use in bridges,  railroads, cars,  electric trains, weapons, 
and for   many necessities   in life.   God can  establish 
heaven only  through  strong Christians.   He can  leave 
heaven only  to strong  Christians.  If they  are broken, 
heaven will be  broken. To  deal with a  lot of  glorious 
work in   heaven, we   need to  have  strong,  Christian 
character. But we can't have strong, Christian  character 
for nothing. Even as steel is put into a smelting furnace 
and hit and put into fire and water over and over again, 
so we, too, can have strong, Christian character through 
the fire of suffering and trials.
Romans 5:3-4 says, "Not only so but we  also rejoice in 
our sufferings, because we know that suffering produces 
perseverance;  perseverance,   character;  and   character, 
hope."
Proverbs 17:3 also says, "The crucible for silver and the 
furnace for  gold,  but the  Lord  tests the   heart." God 
tests our hearts through trials  and purifies them as  He 
tests gold and silver.
In the Bible  we can  see that Joseph  became a  strong 
Christian through suffering. He became  a faithful leader 
to save all the  Egyptians and his  whole family. To be 
such a  strong  leader, he  experienced  many hardships 
and   troubles.  Joseph  was  abandoned  by  his  older 
brothers. When he was  sold to Egyptian merchants,  he 
earnestly asked his brothers for  his life but they didn't 
listen and said,  "Wait and  see what  your dreams will 
be." His  suffering, when  he  was abandoned,  was too 
awful to express. It was such  a severe problem that at 
17 he was sold as a slave in Egypt. He served Potiphar 
as a slave. He was  treated as a beast. At  that time, it 
was no problem to beat a slave  to  death. He grew up 
doing that  type of  terrible slavery.  Then he   was put 
into prison  without  any charge   by the  accusation of 
Potiphar's wife and he had  to stay there for  years. He 
was suffering from many trials. From 17  to 30, he was 
not comfortable for  a moment. He  went through  fierce 
fire and water. However, those  trials made Joseph very 
strong.   He   became   a   very   strong  and   faithful 
Christian.Some time  later when  his brothers  who sold 
him, came and kneeled and pleaded with him, he said to 
them, "Don't be afraid. Am I  in the place of God? You 
intended to harm  me, but God  intended it  for good to 
accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many 
lives. So then,  don't be  afraid. I  will provide  for you 
and your children."  And he  reassured them  and spoke 
kindly to them. No one  except Joseph, a strong  faithful 
man, could say that. Though  his brothers sold him and 
made him spend 13 years as a slave, he comforted them 
and kindly said to them that he would provide for  them 
and their children. That type of character could be made 
only through severe trials.
Romans 8:28 tells us, "We  know that in all things  God 
works for the good  of those who  love Him, who  have 
been called   according to  His  purpose."  In this   way, 
suffering gives us strong character, not  those who give 
up with a little trouble  and attack, but those who  have 
strong character so they never give  up during any trial 
but overcome it.

Third,  we  need  suffering  for  Christian  character  to 
become  like   a diamond.   Diamonds  are   made from 
ordinary carbon through strong  pressure and hot  heat. 
At first, it  was ordinary carbon.  How could it  become 
such a   shiny diamond?   It was  made  from  ordinary 
carbon by severely hot heat  and strong pressure in the 
deep    underground.   Diamonds    become    decorating 
instruments, industrial tools, or a part of  some machine. 
As ordinary carbon  is changed  to diamonds by  strong 
pressure and hot heat, so God trains us through trials to 
make us strong and patient leaders.
Take  a   look at   Moses.  He   had  strong,  Christian 
character like a  diamond. He  was a  great leader  who 
brought 3 million  Israelites out of  Egypt and led  them 
through the  wilderness into  a land  flowing with   milk 
and honey.   While they  were  passing by   waste land 
where  there   was  no   food and   water,   the  people 
complained, grumbled, betrayed and resented him. Yet he 
led them with  such   strong,  Christian leadership.  To 
make him such a strong leader, at 40, God made him go 
out into  the wilderness  because of   King Pharaoh. He 
lived in the  remote and devastated  land as a shepherd 
for 40 years. He, who had lived in the  luxurious palace, 
was expelled and lived  a terrible life  in the wilderness 
where  there  were  no  people  but   only wind,   birds, 
mountains and  deserts.  He was  completely  abandoned 
and he was awfully crushed in his spirit. During  the 40 
years of loneliness, he began to be changed.
In   Lamentations,  Jeremiah   said,   "I  remember   my 
affliction and my wandering, the bitterness and the  gall. 
I well remember them, and my  soul is downcast within 
me. Yet this I  call to mind  and therefore I have  hope: 
Because of the Lord's great love  we are not consumed, 
for His compassions never fail." Moses   lived a terrible 
life with  bitterness and  gall,  but he  overcame severe 
trials and depression and at 80 he became the most mild 
person in   the world.  After  God changed   Moses, He 
showed up in a  burning bush at  Mt. Horeb and  called 
him and gave him  the mission to deliver  the Israelites. 
God didn't   tell anyone   to become   a leader  for  the 
Israelites. God trained Moses  so severely as a  diamond 
made from carbon through strong pressure and hot heat, 
and made   him with  strong  character and   used him. 
When God is  going to give  some one  some work, He 
never ails  to make   him strong through  affliction  and 
hardship.

Fourth, we must have trials  for our Christian character 
to be like a pearl. A pearl  is made of a wounded shell. 
I have been to a place where they made artificial pearls. 
A specialist who made pearls said, "We take a shell and 
put sharp  stuff  under the   tongue of the   shell. Then 
there comes out some liquid from inside to protect itself 
from the sharp stuff and the liquid covers  it over again 
and becomes   round, eventually   becoming a   beautiful 
pearl. Before diamonds were made, pearls were  the best 
jewelry. As  a shell  makes a  pearl by  secreting some 
fluid to protect itself from some sharp stuff, you have to 
face suffering  to  have a  beautiful  Christian character 
like a pearl.  Without affliction, we  don't pray.  We are 
not humble nor  do we  obey Him.  But when  suffering 
comes, our prayer will cover it. As  the shell covers the 
sand in it,  so the  trial will be  covered by  our prayer 
and make us have wonderful  character like a  pearl.  If 
we pray a  lot, weeping  to overcome  a little  or a  big 
problem,   our  character   will   become  precious   and 
beautiful.
Job 23:10 reads, "He knows  the way that I  take; when 
He has tested me, I will  come forth as gold." After we 
are tested, we will come forth as gold and pearls.
Psalm 84:5-6 says, "Blessed are those whose strength is 
in you,  who have  set  their hearts  on pilgrimage.   As 
they pass through  the Valley of  Baca, they make  it a 
place of  springs; the  autumn rains  also cover  it with 
pools." We drink  and farm  with water  from a  spring, 
don't we? When we go through the valley of tears, God 
will make it a  spring where we can  drink and farm.  I 
think the Apostle  Paul had beautiful  faith like  a pearl. 
He was hurt a lot. He struggled, crying out to the Lord 
because of persecution by his  people, the danger of  his 
mission, and his  physical thorn. He  kept crying out  to 
God, in the ship, the prison, on the road and even while 
preaching the gospel. Then all his hardships became like 
beautiful  pearls.   Many  of  the   books  in  the   New 
Testament were written by Paul. Through  afflictions he 
cried out and  prayed to  cover them. As  a result,  God 
made him write the pearls of the New Testament.
We read in 2 Corinthians 12:9-10,  "He said to me, 'My 
grace is   sufficient for   you, for   my power  is  made 
perfect in weakness.' Therefore I will boast all the more 
gladly about   my weaknesses,  so that   Christ's power 
may rest   on me.  That is   why, for  Christ's sake,   I 
delight   in  weakness,   in   insults,  in   hardships,  in 
persecutions, in difficulties. For when I am weak, then I 
am strong." No matter what suffering, hardship, poverty, 
and  persecution  he  passed   through, he   prayed  and 
experienced the strong power of God which changed his 
character, and he became like a beautiful pearl.
Heaven is the place which  saints can enter, saints who 
became like pearls  through suffering.  For "Heaven has 
12 gates made of pearl," the Bible says. Since a pearl is 
made through trials, those who passed through them  by 
prayer  and  tears   can enter   heaven.  We  will  pass 
through the pearly gates and live with the Lord forever.
In fact, suffering is a factory which makes the treasures 
of heaven. In order to  produce saints who are fragrant, 
strong, stable,   shiny and  beautiful,  God  makes them 
pass through the heavenly factory of suffering. You may 
have a little  or a big  trial. To make  you like  steel, a 
diamond and a pearl,  God allows you go  through more 
fire and water  in hardships  and affliction  than others. 
Among lay Christians, God steps on you and grinds you 
like grapes and olives so He can use you.
As  the  Scripture   says, "Consider   it  pure  joy,   my 
brothers,  whenever  you   face trials   of  many  kinds, 
because  you   know that   the  testing   of your   faith 
develops  perseverance.   Perseverance must   finish   its 
work so  that  you may  be  mature and  complete,  not 
lacking anything."  Likewise,  God blesses  us  in every 
field, while  He  makes us   pass through  the fire   and 
water of  suffering  and affliction   so we  may become 
fragrant, valuable and  beautiful as  steel, diamonds and 
pearls. That's why we should pray  and cry out to God 
during suffering and  we should  thank and  praise Him 
for happiness and grace. We are  not always walking in 
a garden of roses or in a field of thorns. As you see in 
nature, there is a sunny day,  a rainy day, and a windy 
day. So there is a  blessing to us from God  and a trial 
so we can grow in faith. We grow up through suffering 
and rejoice with blessings on this earth. And finally--as 
fragrant, valuable and  shiny saints like  steel, diamonds 
and pearls, we will get into heaven. 

-Prayer-
Our Father, God,  of holiness and  glory, we face  many 
kinds of  trials.  We receive   blessings and also   suffer 
from affliction, hardships and trouble. Please help us not 
to consider them strange, and let us understand that we 
Christians can  grow through  suffering. We  thank you 
for  instructing   us that   we   need to   pass  through 
afflictions  to   be  as  fragrant,   strong,  valuable  and 
beautiful as diamonds and pearls.  Please help us not  to 
be discouraged, shrink  back nor complain  in trials, but 
repent and be changed so we  can thank you and grow. 
We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.
