Sunday, March 21 1999
Title : Law and Love
Scripture Reading : Mt 18:21-35

  In    English,    a   husband's    mother    is    called 
"mother-in-law," that is, a legal mother. A son's wife is 
called "daughter-in-law," which means a legal  daughter. 
Therefore,  there   is a   legal   relationship between   a 
mother-in-law and a daughter-in-law   but not a blood 
relationship. 

  In   Korean  history,   the   relation-ship  between   a 
mother-in-law  and   a  daughter-in-law   has  been  a 
problem, for  law always   tries to find  fault.  There is 
always  tension.   In16,000  calls   for  counseling   from 
daughters-in-law, 70% of the problems are  between the 
mother-in-law and the daughter-in-law and just 10% of 
the problems  are about  other things.   Mothers-in-law 
have  many  complaints  about  their  daughters-in-law. 
However, the relationship between  mother and daughter 
is  not  legal  but  it  has  under-standing,  compassion, 
mercy, and  love. That's  why there  are always   warm 
hearts between  mother and  daughter.  The relationship 
made   by  law   always  brings   forth  judgment   and 
punishment,  but  the  relationship  by  love   brings us 
mercy,  forgiveness,   and love.   Then,  what   type  of 
relationship has been made between God and man?

First, God chose the Israelites as the eldest son and the 
priest  nation   on  behalf   of  mankind   and  made   a 
relationship   with  them.   After   the   Israelites  were 
delivered from Egypt, God revealed Himself at Sinai and 
made   a  covenant   with  them   through  Moses.   Its 
condition was to observe the law.  If they kept the law, 
they could be  privileged as  chosen people,  but if they 
violated the law, they were strictly judged and punished. 
Therefore,   at   first,  God   and   man   had  a   legal 
relationship. Law must bring judgment. If we violate the 
law, we shall be strictly judged.

  Exodus 20:5-6  states, "I,  the Lord  your God,  am a 
jealous God, punishing  the children  for the  sin of  the 
fathers to the third and  fourth generation of those  who 
hate me, but showing love to a thousand  generations of 
those  who  love  me   and keep   my  commandments." 
Likewise, God gave the Israelites the moral law, the ten 
commandments and also the civil law. When they didn't 
keep the  law,  He severely   judged them.  There were 
laws between God  and man: "You  shall have no  other 
gods before me. You shall  not bow down to idols.  You 
shall not   misuse the   name of   the Lord   your God. 
Remember the Sabbath day by keeping  it holy." If they 
violated one of those four  laws, they were to be  killed. 
When they  did  not keep   His law,  He didn't  forgive 
them but killed them. There were also laws among men: 
"Honor your father and mother."

  Exodus 21:17 says, "Anyone who curses  his father or 
mother must be put  to death." "You shall  not murder." 
Exodus 21:12  says,  "Anyone who  strikes  a man   and 
kills him shall surely  be put to  death." The Bible  also 
says, "Anyone who commits adultery must be stoned or 
burned." "You shall  not steal. You  shall not give  false 
testimony against  your neighbor.   You shall not   covet 
your neighbor." If  they violated  those laws, they  were 
surely judged.

  In some other cases,  they could be  forgiven only by 
offering God  a  sacrifice of   blood: burnt  offering, sin 
offering, guilt   offering, fellowship  offering,  and thank 
offering. They could be forgiven by offering the sacrifice 
of the blood of animals.

  Therefore, as Galatians 2:16  says, "Know that a  man 
is not justified  by observing  the law,  but by  faith in 
Jesus Christ. So  we, too, have  put our  faith in Christ 
Jesus that we  may be justified  by faith  in Christ and 
not by observing the law, because by observing the law 
no one  will be  justified." No  one will  be justified  by 
observing the law before  God. For the Bible  says, "All 
have sinned and  fall short  of the  glory of  God." The 
Israelites had  a legal   relationship with God   and they 
were strictly  judged on  behalf of  mankind. Under  the 
law, all people are sinful and must be judged. Therefore, 
if we have a legal relationship with God, all our  actions 
must be inspected and if any fault is found, we must be 
judged. That's why no one is justified by observing the 
law. If we  make a  law between  a husband  and wife, 
parents and   children, there   will be  judgment  among 
them. The law is to find  fault, but not to praise. If  we 
are legal in our household,  there will be only  judgment 
and wounds. Likewise,  if man  has a  legal relationship 
with God, he  will hide  from Him  and God  will judge 
man, then at last the covenant with God will be broken. 
The Israelites violated all  the laws and  disobeyed God, 
and He  judged them.  Finally, the  Old Testament  was 
broken. The covenant of chosen  people was broken and 
the Israelites were captured and scattered in Asshur and 
Babylon.

  What is the relationship between God and man  in the 
New  Testament?   In  the  Old   Testament  the   legal 
relationship was   totally broken.  However,  to make   a 
new  covenant  with  man,  God  sent  His  Son,  Jesus   
Christ, to this world 2000 years ago. He  was born as a 
man under law.

  Galatians 4:4-7 reads, "When the time had fully come, 
God sent His Son, born of a woman, born under law, to 
redeem those under law, that  we might receive the  full 
rights of  sons.  Because you   are sons,  God sent  the 
Spirit of His  Son into our  hearts, the Spirit  who calls 
out, "Abba, Father." So you are no longer a slave, but a 
son; and since you  are a son,  God has made you  also 
an heir." Jesus  was born a  man and a  Jew under the 
law so that He fully observed  the law and bore all  the 
sins under the law. Therefore, God sent His Son,  Jesus, 
that He might  bear all the  sins of both  the Jews  and 
the gentiles and destroy them as a sacrifice. Hence, God 
was to  make a  covenant of  forgiveness, grace,  mercy 
and love through Christ. Jesus became a sacrifice on the 
cross and destroyed our sins forever.

  I John 1:7 says, "The blood of Jesus, His Son, purifies 
us from all sin." Since Jesus came as an eternal man of 
God and  became  a sacrifice,   His sacrifice  is eternal. 
Eternity involves eternal  past and  eternal future.  Once 
and for   all the  Lord became   a sacrifice  for all   sin. 
Anyone   who   sins   should   offer   a   sacrifice   for 
forgiveness, but Jesus became an eternal  burnt offering, 
sin  offering,   guilt offering,   and   fellowship offering. 
Today we   do not   offer a  sacrifice,  for  we  became 
perfect forever through the sacrifice of Jesus. Therefore, 
we are forgiven  forever through Jesus  Christ. You are 
forgiven for 24 hours.  You are always  forgiven by the 
precious  blood   of  Christ.   Jesus  became   a  perfect 
sacrifice for us by shedding His blood on  the cross. On 
the  cross   Jesus  completed  and   destroyed  the  law 
forever. Because the  law was  to take our  sin but  the 
Lord made it complete and paid  for all our sin, it  is of 
no  use.  If  there  is  no  criminal,  we  don't  need  a 
policeman. Why do we need  a policeman if there  is no 
criminal? If there  is no  sin, why  should we  have the 
law? Since God paid  for all our sin  through Jesus, the 
law does not have any duty anymore. If the law says to 
us, "You committed sin," then Jesus will answer, "I paid 
for it with my blood. Although the law  condemns us, it 
will be  powerless, for  the  blood of  Jesus paid   for it 
forever. Likewise,  God  abolished the  law  through the 
cross of Jesus Christ.

  Today we are not under the condemnation of the law, 
but we   are guided   by the  Holy  Spirit.  In  the Old 
Testament God   gave the   Israelites the   law for   the 
covenant  of  His   chosen people.   Now  in   the New 
Testament, He sent  the Holy Spirit  as a  gift to those 
who were forgiven forever  by believing in Jesus.  Since 
God sent the Holy  Spirit to impress  and change us so 
we may pray, become holy and live by His will, the law 
of the  New  Testament is   the Holy  Spirit. It   is the 
condition  of   the  New   Testament  that   we  accept, 
welcome, invite,   depend on   and live   with the   Holy 
Spirit. For God abolished the law forever.

  Hebrews 10:8-10 says, "First He  said, 'Sacrifices and 
offerings, burnt offerings and  sin offerings you  did not 
desire, nor were  you pleased with  them' (although the 
law required them to  be made). Then He  said, 'Here I 
am, I have  come to do  your will.'  He  sets aside the 
first to establish the second. And by  that will, we have 
been made  holy through  the  sacrifice of  the body  of 
Jesus Christ  once for  all." Therefore,  in Jesus  Christ, 
the law is no more than a mirror to help us. The law is 
no longer needed to  judge us. It just reflects if we are 
sinful or not, like a mirror and it  has no right to judge 
us.  Jesus  through  the  cross   has destroyed   all the 
powers and authorities  of the  devil forever.  The devil 
overwhelmed man as  a slave  after he  was driven out 
from God due to  sin. As long as  man is a  sinner, the 
devil always draws us as a slave. Since Adam and Eve 
fell and  were  driven out,  they  became slaves  to  the 
devil. Since  all  men disobeyed   God and sinned,   they 
became slaves to the devil. However,  because the chain 
of sin   is broken,   the relationship   with the  devil  is 
broken as well. Since our sins are  forgiven, we are not 
condemned by sin.  The devil  who occupied  us due to 
sin has nothing to do  with us any longer,  for God has 
destroyed all the powers and authorities of the devil.

  Colossians 2:15  tells  us, "And   having disarmed the 
powers and authorities,  He made  a public  spectacle of 
them, triumphing over them by the  cross." Through the 
cross of Christ Jesus, He set  you free from sin by  His 
blood and  destroyed all  the powers  and authorities  of 
the devil.  For now,  you have  nothing to  do with  the 
devil. Though he came  in one direction, he  will flee in 
seven. If we  have nothing  to do  with the  devil, why 
should we fear him?  The devil is powerless  before the 
blood of Jesus  Christ. For  the power and  authority of 
the devil has been destroyed  forever. Then through the 
blood of the cross,  the condition of salvation  by works 
is  eliminated   forever. The   Lord  has   abolished  the 
condition of salvation that was done by righteous action. 
Regardless of sin, disability, and  poverty, we are saved 
only if we  believe in Jesus.  That's because  Jesus has 
done everything necessary for salvation on the cross by 
Himself. Since Jesus cried out, "I have finished it," there 
is salvation  anywhere  if there  is  Christ. Since   Jesus 
accomplished salvation completely, if we just accept Him 
we don't have to add our righteous actions any more.

  According to Ephesians 2:8-9, "For it is by grace you 
have  been  saved,  through  faith--and  this  not  from 
yourselves, it is the gift of God-- not by works, so that 
no one  can boast."   Therefore, you are   not saved by 
works, but by the gift of God, so  we will have nothing  
to boast about even in heaven.  We won't say, "Look, I 
am saved by good works." All we have to do is look up 
to the Lord,  thanking and  praising Him  for His  great 
work on  the cross.  That's why   through Jesus Christ 
our God destroys sins,  the law, the  devil, all the work 
of   man,  and   only   through  the   cross   He  pours 
forgiveness, mercy, grace and love upon us. Now  God's 
point of view  is different  from before. Aside  from the 
law, He looks  at us through  the cross and  accepts us 
with forgiveness,  mercy and  love. In  other words,  He 
looks at us not  with the viewpoint of  a mother-in-law 
but with that of a real  mother. All believers in the Old 
Testament were like  daughters-in-law. God  played the 
role of a  father-in-law and  mother-in-law toward His 
people.  He  treated  them  with  laws  that  there  was 
always a  cold  relationship. But   through the cross   of 
Jesus  Christ,  God  became  our  real  father  and  real 
mother and we became His real children, so there  is no 
more  coldness.   Now  God   looks  at  us   only  with 
forgiveness, mercy,  grace, and   love. What do   parents 
think of  their children?   They always think   of  their 
children   with  forgiveness,   grace,  mercy   and  love. 
Though their children make mistakes, they don't  like to 
judge them.   If others   find fault  with  their  children, 
parents  defend   them.  Mothers  always   defend  their 
daughters but  want to   accuse their daughters-in-law. 
That's because one  is the relationship  of love and  the 
other is that of the law.

  One of my church members told  me that she was so 
sorry for   her daughter-in-law.   Some time   later she 
visited me again and said that  she was so sad because 
her   daughter's  mother-in-law   hated   her  daughter. 
Though she  hated  her daughter-in-law,   she defended 
her daughter saying, "My daughter is so  kind and mild, 
but her  mother-in-law mistreats  her." And  she asked 
me to pray for her  daughter. In a legal relationship  we 
always judge others, yet in a relationship of love we try 
to forgive others with mercy and love, covering all their 
faults. Therefore, we read in Psalm 103:13, "As a  father 
has  compassion  on   his children,   so  the   Lord has 
compassion on those who fear Him."

  Isaiah 49:15 says,  "Can a mother  forget the  baby at 
her breast and have no compassion on the child she has 
borne? Though she may  forget, I will  not forget you!" 
Then what   attitude should  we  have  as believers   in 
Jesus? One day Peter  came to Jesus and  asked, "Lord, 
how many  times shall  I forgive  my brother  when he 
sins against  me? Up   to seven times?"   He has great 
mercy if   he forgives  seven  times. He   expected that 
Jesus   would  give   him   a  compliment.   Yet   Jesus 
answered,   "I    tell   you,    not   seven   times,    but 
seventy-seven times."  That  is, he   should forgive  his 
brother even 490  times a  day. It  is impossible  in the 
relationship of  the law.  It  can be  done only  between 
parents and children. If children make  a lot of mistakes 
in a day, their parents can forgive them, love and try to 
cover   their  faults.   We   can   forgive  our   children 
seventy-seven times as  parents, but  forgiving only  up 
to seven times still contains legal conditions.

  Then the Lord  told him  such a  tremendous parable: 
"The kingdom of heaven  is like a king  who wanted to 
settle accounts   with his   servants. As  he  began  the 
settlement, a man  who owed  him ten thousand  talents 
was brought   to him,   (In Korean  money  14.4  billion 
won). Since he was not able to pay, the  master ordered 
that he and  his wife  and his children  and all  that he 
had, be sold to repay  the debt. The servant  fell on his 
knees before him, 'Be patient with me,' he begged, 'and 
I will pay back  everything.' The servant's master  took 
pity on  him, canceled   the debt and   let him go.  The 
servant was so  thankful to  the master.  But when  the 
servant went out,  he found one  of his  fellow servants 
who owed him a hundred denarii. A hundred  denarii? It 
is such  a little  debt compared  with his   debt. Yet he 
grabbed him and began  to choke him,  'Pay back what 
you owe me!'  he demanded. His  fellow servant  fell to 
his knees and begged  him, 'Be patient  with me, and  I 
will pay you back.' But he refused. Instead, he went off 
and had the man thrown  into prison until he could  pay 
the  debt.  When  the  other   servants saw   what had 
happened, they  were greatly   distressed and went  and 
told their   master everything  that had   happened. The 
master was  indignant and  called the  servant in,  'You 
wicked servant,'  he said,  'I canceled   all that debt  of 
yours because you  begged me  to. Shouldn't  you have 
had mercy  on your   fellow servant just   as I had   on 
you?' In anger his master turned him over to the jailers 
to be tortured,  until he  should pay  back all  he owed. 
Then the Lord said,  "This is how  my heavenly Father 
will treat each  of you unless  you forgive your  brother 
from your   heart." This   is such   an important  word. 
Because  today  so  many  people  are  in  a  prison  of 
distress,  despair,  and  frustration  spiritually,  mentally, 
physically and materially. Why  are they in  prison? It's 
because they do not forgive their neighbors as  much as 
they are forgiven by God.

  John 13:34-35  says,  "A new  command  I give   you: 
Love one another.  As I  have loved  you, so you  must 
love one another.  By this  all men will  know that  you 
are my disciples, if you love one another."

  Matthew 5:23-24 also tells  us, "Therefore, if  you are 
offering your gift at  the altar and there  remember that 
your brother has something against you, leave  your gift 
there in front of the altar. First go and be  reconciled to 
your brother; then come and offer your gift."

  Luke 6:27-28  states, "But  I  tell you  who hear  me: 
Love your  enemies, do  good  to those  who hate   you, 
bless those who curse you, pray for those who  mistreat 
you." It is so hard for us to practice. However, now we 
should have a  relationship not  with law and  judgment 
but with forgiveness, mercy, grace and love. We  do not 
live under the law of the Old  Testament, but under the 
grace of the  new covenant through  the cross of  Jesus 
Christ at Calvary. In  the Old Testament, God  gave the 
law and the judgment  at Sinai, but  the cross of  Jesus 
Christ  destroyed  them  with  His  blood  and   through 
Christ, the law,  sin, and the  devil were  destroyed and 
human works   disappeared. There  is only   forgiveness, 
mercy, grace and love overflowing. If we live  under the 
new covenant of Jesus Christ, we  will be like Him and 
have a relationship of  grace, forgiveness and  love with 
others. We owe Jesus so much that we can't express it. 
We have to  pay Him back.  Nowadays, many  believers 
are suffering  from  mental and   physical problems,  for 
they do not forgive  their neighbors. Many  people come 
to be healed,  but they  aren't, though  they pray a  lot. 
But if they  repent of sin,  forgive those they  hate, and 
pray, God  will set  them free.  God wants  us to   have 
forgiveness, grace, mercy and love.  He doesn't want to 
judge us with  the law.  He wants  us to  have such  a 
relationship as we have with our real mother. He wants 
us to   become one  with  love so   that we  may  keep 
forgiving one another in Christ. If we lose anything God 
will pay   us back   in return.   The God   who created 
heaven and  earth will  pour grace  on those  who have 
forgiveness, mercy and  love so that  the meek  may be 
given the  land. We   should not think  that  those who 
judge and  distress others   will be rich.   They will be 
abandoned by God.

  Therefore, today  we  have to   look to  the cross   of 
Jesus Christ, for even in  any bad situation of  ours, He 
has pity and  mercy on us,  loves us,  saying, "All you, 
who are weary  and burdened,  come to me,  and I  will 
give you rest." As we are loved  abundantly by God, so 
we should share His love and grace with our neighbors. 
You have to  take off the  glasses of  Sinai and put  on 
the  glasses  of  the  cross  at  Calvary.  Take  off  the 
glasses of the law and put on  the glasses of grace and 
love.   May   you   always    have   relationships   with 
forgiveness, grace, mercy and love in the name of Jesus 
Christ!

-Prayer-
  Dear God,   our Father,  who  is almighty   and holy! 
Today our society  is so  cold and  fierce, for  we have 
legal relationships.   Since we  think that   only we  are 
right and others are  wrong, we are hurt  in our hearts. 
Lord, under the law, wives and husbands can't bear and 
children will leave their parents, and we  can't live with 
our neighbors together. Dear God! Please help us not  to 
judge and condemn but accept each other with the heart 
of God  who forgives,  loves, has  grace and  mercy, so 
that we may  understand, forgive, and  have mercy  and 
grace on  others.  Please help  us  practice love   in our 
lives. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.   
                      
