Sunday, August 15th 1999
Title : Liberation
Scripture Reading : Mt 27:26

  Fifty four years ago, on August 15th in 1945, Korea 
was  released  from  the  colonial  occupation  of  the 
Japanese imperialists by the help  of the allied forces. 
On that day, we felt  as if we had  been in a dream. 
The stepping sound  of Japanese  policemen made  us 
terrified. However,  all of  a sudden,  the police  were 
closed, the Japanese  flag was taken  down, and their 
national anthem   disappeared. We   had a   liberation! 
How fortunate  we were!  We  were like  being in  a 
dream. Japan had occupied Korea  by force and made 
all  the  Koreans   their slaves.   They  deprived  the 
Koreans of their  names and forced  them to  use the 
Japanese names. They  took the Korean  language by 
force. They  also  carried off   our crops.  The youth 
were taken for military service,  the middle aged men 
for work draft and the young girls were taken as sex 
slaves  for   Japanese  soldiers.   At  that   time, the 
groaning  of   the  Koreans  was   like  that  of   the 
Israelites oppressed under the Egyptian Pharaoh.
  Today  we  shudder   just to   think  of  our   past 
disgraceful  history.  When   we look   back  at   this 
tragedy  of  our  history,  we  always  feel  unhappy. 
Because   our  foolish   ancestors  rejected   historical 
change,  we   were severely   afflicted.  In   times of 
Daewongun, the  Occidental countries  required  us to 
open the door, dispatching warships, the king strongly 
refused and closed the door, so he kept us from being 
modernized.  The   foolishness and   mistake   of our 
ancestors made their  descendants burdened  with the 
yoke of  slavery. Meanwhile,  Japan opened  wide for 
the Occidental civilization and through the Revitalizing 
Reforms they began  a grand modernization  and was 
changing into a modern 
nation with   developed industry  and strong   military 
power. Yet,   we lived   without changing  under  the 
policy of   seclusion. Our  national power   was being 
weakened day  by  day and   our nation  was utterly 
disrupted by party disputes. As a result,  we couldn't 
help surrendering  ourselves to  the  strong power  of 
the Japanese armed with their modern weapons.
  Today we   should learn  a  lesson from   our past 
history. We should not  just blame Japanese invasion. 
Because we opened  the door for  them to invade  us. 
Since we were powerless and weak, we were invaded 
by  them.  Therefore,   we must   not  pass  on  this 
foolishness to  our descendants.  Now  we are  facing 
the 21st   century and   the whole   world is  greatly 
changing. We should not refuse  to change any more. 
Our ancestors   were conservative  without  accepting 
change and  ruined our  nation. We  must not  repeat 
such   foolishness  again.   The  government,   people, 
enterprises, education,  and  farmers must   change. If 
we  reject  change  and  reformation   for our   group 
selfishness,   it   will   bring   about  destruction   to 
ourselves and our offsprings.  Unless we are changed 
and developed, we will  become other types of  slaves 
more seriously.  Now  I'm going   to speak  of being 
released from eternal slavery. No matter how much  a 
nation and  its people  may  change, both  ruling and 
ruled counties will  disappear as  time goes  by. Both 
slaves and freemen will  return to earth and  face the 
judgment day. Spiritual freedom is the most important 
thing to us. We must have freedom in our souls. 
  In the Bible, in the time of Jesus, there was a man 
named  Barabbas  notorious   for theft,   murder  and 
firesetting.   He    was   arrested   by   the    Roman 
government  and  sentenced   to death,   so  he   was 
waiting for the day of crucifixion. For he belonged to 
a zealot party  of the  Israelites. He used  violence to 
be  independent  from  Rome.   He was   a notorious 
criminal for a popular uprising, murder and a riot. He 
was confined in prison and  was waiting for the time 
to be   executed. No  one likes   to die.  Everyone  is 
terrified at death.  Barabbas was  so nervous that  he 
couldn't sleep all night. His  eyes were bloodshot and 
his whole body  hardened. If  the prison  guard came 
and opened the iron door, he would have to carry the 
heavy cross  to the   execution place. The   time was 
coming very near  to him.  He could  hear the  heavy 
steps of  the guard.   He was so   frightened that he 
squatted down in  a corner.  He was going  to resist. 
He wouldn't get out. Then the prison guard  unlocked 
the iron door and said,  "Barabbas, you are free.  You 
are released.  The  prison door  is  opened. Get   out." 
Barabbas said, "Do not  lie. I won't go  out until you 
take me out." The guard said again, "You may  do as 
you please.   The cross  you  are supposed   to carry 
today, Jesus of Nazareth will carry instead of you. He 
will die  in  your place.  You  are released   and free. 
Then the prison guard went  away. It was incredible. 
He was sentenced  to death.  Then how  could he be 
free? He thought  that the  guard told him  a lie  and 
deceived him. So  for some  time he  squatted in  the 
prison and walked out of the door and looked out, but 
no one kept him from going out.
  He carefully left  the cell  and looked back,  but no 
one followed  him. The  prison gate  was opened.  He 
was released  and freed  but he   couldn't stay there. 
"Why is Jesus going to carry the cross in my place?" 
He was   wondering so   much that   he ran   to the 
execution place.   Then he   saw Jesus   carrying the 
cross he should take.  No wonder, the  cross was for 
him. Yet,   Jesus was   struggling under   that cross. 
Jesus fell down and got  up. He was whipped, kicked 
and covered with blood. He got  up again and carried 
the cross.   Barabbas followed  Jesus  Christ's march 
with the cross  in the  crowd. At  last, he arrived  at 
Golgotha, where the  cross he  was to  hang on  was 
put down and Jesus lay down on it. Then the Roman 
soldiers rushed to Him and began to nail both  of His 
hands.   The   nailing   sound   echoed   around   the 
mountains.   Jesus  screamed   and  struggled.   Then 
Barabbas shuddered, for  he felt as  if his hands  had 
been nailed. When  Jesus was hanging  on the  cross, 
Barabbas thought that he was hanging, "I'm hanging. 
Jesus is  not hanging  but I  am. His  hands are  my 
hands and  His  feet are  my  feet. His  body  is my 
body.  I  should   have hung   there.  Why  is  Jesus 
hanging in  my  place? Why  did  Jesus release   me? 
Why does He die for me?"  Barabbas shook his head. 
He couldn't forget about  Jesus Christ. Since  he was 
released due to Jesus Christ,  he strongly felt that he 
would have to  live for Jesus  during the rest  of His 
life.
  The story of Barabbas is for you and me. You and 
I are all sinners  and we are doomed  to die. We  are 
in the prison of sin,  the devil, death and  destruction. 
We think to ourselves, "I'm not in the prison but I'm 
free. I freely sleep,  wake up, eat, drink  and live." In 
fact, it is not  true. From the spiritual  point of view, 
you and I are in  the prison of sin.  The iron bars of 
sin confine us. You and I are prisoners who are to be 
executed. When the time comes, we shall fall into the 
eternal fire of hell through death. All have sinned and 
fall short of  the glory  of God.  The wage of  sin is 
death. In the  prison of  sin, we are  just waiting  for 
the day of death. 
  Romans 5:12 says,  "Therefore, just  as sin  entered 
the world through  one man,  and death  through sin, 
and in this  way death came  to all men,  because all 
sinned." After Adam and Eve became slaves to sin, in 
sin we were conceived and born  and in sin we wait, 
die and we are to be judged by eternal fire. Who can 
release us from this  prison of sin?  No religion, law, 
ethical and  moral deed,  and ritual   can set us  free. 
Who will  deliver us  from this  prison of  sin? Then 
there came good news, "God so  loved the world that 
He gave His one and only Son, that whoever believes 
in Him shall  not perish but  have eternal life."  Since 
Jesus came, bore our sins, paid the price for our  sins 
through His death, He released us from  the prison of 
sin. We became  innocent, so we  have to get  out of 
prison.  Today  Jesus  proclaims  the  gospel   saying, 
"Since I  bore all  your sins  and paid  for them,  the 
door of the prison is  opened. Now come out! Believe 
in Jesus and come  out of the prison  of sin," just as 
the   prison  guard   came  to   Barabbas  and   said, 
"Barabbas, Since   Jesus carried   the cross   in your 
place, you are  now free! The  door is  opened. Come 
out!"
  Today, throughout the world  God is declaring  that 
since Jesus bore  our sins  for us,  we are free  from 
sin so we have to  believe in Jesus and  come out of 
the prison.   Many people  reject this   news. Though 
they  hear,   they don't   come   out of   the   prison. 
However, you and  I, after hearing  this news,  boldly 
accepted Jesus as our Savior and came out of 
the prison   of sin.   You and   I are  no  longer  the 
captives of sin. We  are released from sin.  The price 
of sin is all paid.  The prison of sin can't  confine us 
any longer. Through Jesus we are released and freed. 
We are delivered from sin  and became righteous and 
now we are to go  to heaven! Yet, like  Barabbas we 
have something to do. Why did Jesus release us from 
the prison? Why  did He carry  the cross for  us and 
walk up to Golgotha? We must  run to the cross and 
look at Jesus' dying. Not only do we hear the  gospel 
of Jesus Christ and are saved, but we should also see 
how Jesus was  crucified for  us. We  have to go  to 
the execution place.  When we  see Jesus  nailed, we 
have to consider His hands as ours, His feet as ours, 
and His cross as ours. All of us should have  died on 
that cross but Jesus took  our cross and died for  our 
place. In  fact, He   didn't die but  we  did. We  died 
through Christ. Jesus didn't hang in His name  but in 
our names: in the name of Yonggi Cho, Yoontae Yeo. 
He was hanging in your name. His death is ours and 
our death is His. We just think  that we come out of 
the prison,   but that   is not   all. At   the place   of 
execution, we can see Christ and us dying together.
  Romans 6:6-11 states,  "For we know  that our old 
self was crucified with  Him so that the  body of sin 
might be done away  with, that we  should no longer 
be slaves to sin-- because anyone  who has died has 
been freed from sin. Now if we  died with Christ, we 
believe that we will also live with Him. For we know 
that since Christ was raised from the dead, He cannot 
die again;  death no   longer has mastery   over Him. 
The death He died,  He died to  sin once for  all; but 
the life He lives, He  lives to God. In  the same way, 
count yourselves  dead  to sin   but alive  to God   in 
Christ Jesus." We look  up to Christ  under the cross 
and say, "Lord,  since we  were crucified, buried  and 
resurrected with You, we  believe that our old  selves 
died through Christ and we are born again as sons of 
God."
  Galatians 2:20  reads, "I   have been crucified   with 
Christ and I  no longer  live, but Christ  lives in  me. 
The life I live in the body, I live by  faith in the Son 
of God,  who loved  me  and gave  Himself for   me." 
When  we  look  to   the cross,   we can   hear  this 
amazing Word.  We have  been crucified  with Christ 
and we no longer  live, but Christ  lives in us.  Since 
by   faith  in   Jesus   we  died,   were  buried   and 
resurrected with Him, we live with Him.  
  Romans 5:17 says,  "For if, by  the trespass of  the 
one man, death  reigned through  that one  man, how 
much more  will those  who  receive God's  abundant 
provision of  grace and  of the  gift  of righteousness 
reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ." Now 
we reign over death. The cross is  not only the place 
where our old selves  die, but where  we also rise in 
Christ and  live  as sons   of God.  "If anyone   is in 
Christ,  he is a  new creation; the  old has gone, the 
new has  come!" We've   overcome the law  and  the 
devil and live as  kings. It has been  accomplished on 
the cross. 
  In Colossians   2:12-15 we  read,  "---having  been 
buried with   Him in  baptism and   raised with  Him 
through your faith  in the power  of God, who  raised 
Him from  the dead.  When you   were dead in  your 
sins and in the  uncircumcision of your  sinful nature, 
God made you  alive with  Christ. He  forgave us all 
our sins, having  canceled the  written code,  with its 
regulations,  that  was   against us   and  that  stood 
opposed to  us; He   took it away,   nailing it to   the 
cross.   And   having   disarmed   the   powers   and 
authorities,  He  made  a  public  spectacle   of them, 
triumphing   over  them   by  the   cross."   Barabbas 
couldn't be happy with getting  out of the prison.  He 
followed Jesus and came to  Golgotha. He saw Christ 
being nailed   on the   cross and   he shuddered.   He 
deeply felt that he  also died, was buried  with Christ 
and got   a new  life  in Him.   He must  have  been 
changed by the tremendous fact and power.
  Likewise, we can't  be satisfied only  with the fact 
that we  are saved  and  freed from  sin by  faith  in 
Jesus. We should go to Golgotha and clearly see  that 
Jesus' death,  burial, resurrection  are ours.  It is  not 
religion, ritual,   nor formality.  In reality,   our hands 
were nailed  with  His, our   feet with  His, and   our 
bodies with His. Our old  selves as slaves to sin,  the 
devil, secularity, diseases, sorrow,  poverty, the curse, 
death and destruction, died  with Christ on the  cross, 
were buried   and resurrected  in  Him.  We died   as 
slaves and   rose as  kings.  We  have to   reign. At 
Golgotha, we   saw ourselves   dying as   slaves and 
being born  as kings.   All of us   are born kings   in 
Jesus Christ. Now we reign over sin. We were slaves 
to sin and we became kings to reign over sin, so  we 
can command sin. Kings  are to command  and reign. 
We can command sin, "You, sin, get away! You can't 
threaten us. You, sin,  go away!" Slaves  to sin have 
become kings over sin now. We reign over sin.
  We were  slaves to  the devil   and the world,  but 
with Christ we are resurrected and now we are kings 
over the devil.  We command  in the  name of Jesus, 
"You, the devil,  go away.  You are  tied. Leave  us." 
We command  and reign   as kings. "You,  secularity, 
get out   of me.   Go away   from my   circumstance. 
Drunkenness, debauchery, lust, all of  you, get away!" 
We used to be slaves to them but now we  are kings 
over them. We were slaves to diseases. If they came, 
stole, killed and destroyed us,  we submitted to them. 
But now we  reign over  them. We  command in  the 
name of Jesus of Nazareth,  "You, sickness, go away. 
Untie us. You, diseases, go!" Then they have to obey 
us. For we are not slaves to them, but kings.
  Even when  we are  sad, depressed,  frustrated and 
disappointed, we  as kings,  have to  command, "You, 
depression, sorrow, agony and misfortune, all  you, go 
away! You, the devil, don't touch!" We can command 
as kings. Then they will yield to us. In our lives, we 
should  command,  "You,  the  curse,  thorns,  failure, 
poverty, go  away!" For  when  we were  slaves, we 
were dragged by the curse  and poverty and troubled 
by  thorns  and  thistles.   But now   we  are  kings. 
Therefore. we  have  to command  in  the name    of 
Jesus of Nazareth,  "You, thorns,  thistles,  the curse, 
disappear!" We have to defeat them.
  We are kings, so  even death and hell  don't attack 
us. We should say,  "I command in  Jesus' name, the 
fear of death  disappear. You, hell,  go away. I  am a 
man of heaven  and eternal  life." We  should live  as 
kings.   Since  we   are  kings,   we  can   command, 
"Righteous life.   Come to   me instead   of sin!  The 
fullness of the  Holy Spirit, heaven,  health, happiness 
and joy. Come to me! You, the devil. Stay away from 
all the  curse of  materials. Blessings  and prosperity. 
Come to me, for you are mine."  "Heaven, eternal life, 
resurrection, glory! Fill me with you."  We reign with 
Christ in His life. "The thief comes  only to steal and 
kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, 
and have it  to the full."  We have to  reign in Jesus 
Christ. "For if, by the trespass of the one man, death 
reigned through that  one man, how  much more  will 
those who receive God's abundant  provision of grace 
and of the gift of  righteousness reign in life  through 
the one man, Jesus Christ."
  Hence, in the  name of  the Lord  I wish you  may 
know that  all  of you   are born  again as   heavenly 
kings. Barabbas was no longer the one who had used 
to be. He got out of the cell and saw Jesus dying on 
the cross. He was alive.  He couldn't but becoming a 
man of  Christ. He  was  changed. It  doesn't simply 
mean that  you and  I believe  in  Jesus and  we are 
forgiven from our  sins. He  saw Christ  being nailed 
on the   cross and  himself  changing  by dying   and 
being buried with  Him. He  saw himself  being born 
again and said, "I'm  no longer a slave.  I am a king 
over everything so that all will  go well with me and 
I will  have health  and abundant  life."  It is  natural 
that we should  be released from  colonial oppression, 
live on this land and restore  our national rights. Yet, 
though we are freed from  earthly slavery, unless we 
are released from sin, the devil, death  and the fire of 
hell, finally   we will  surely face   a severe  tragedy. 
With the  restoration of   our national rights  through 
liberation, We must  be released from  eternal slavery 
of death.
  John 8:32 says, "You  will know the truth,  and the 
truth will set you free." Galatians 5:1 also says, "It is 
for freedom that  Christ has set  us free. Stand  firm, 
then, and do not let yourselves be burdened  again by 
a yoke of slavery."  The yoke of  slavery was totally 
broken on the cross at Calvary. We are released from 
slavery. We are free. We  are God's children and  we 
are born again  as kings. Please  say to one  another, 
"You are free." Once again, please say, "You are born 
again as a  king." You  should speak  and act  like a 
king.  By  dying   on the   cross,  being  buried  and 
resurrected,  Jesus  made  you  free.  Now  we  have 
become kings with true authority, majesty and power. 
Sin must  obey us.   The devil and   the world must 
submit to   us. Diseases,  misfortune,  the  curse  and 
poverty are under us. Death and hell surrender to  us. 
That's why when  we command, they  will go away. 
Unless we command, they won't leave.
  Furthermore, we should command them so that  our 
souls may get along  well and all  may go well  with 
us in   good health.  The  king can   obtain what  he 
commands. If  a king  closes his  mouth and   doesn't 
rule, he will have nothing. You have  to manage your 
destiny and circumstances in Jesus' name. You should 
command so that the devil  and his followers may be 
expelled and   that God's   grace and   promises may 
come to you.  May you  live and  act as a  king and 
enjoy His grace. 

-Prayer-
Almighty and holy  God, our Father,  a prisoner, who 
committed   murder,  firesetting   and  violence,   was 
released on account of Jesus Christ. Looking at  Jesus 
being crucified, he shuddered and became a new man. 
In the same  way, we were  all in the  prison of sin, 
but we got out of prison of sin by hearing the gospel 
of Jesus. Looking  up to Jesus  hanging on the  cross 
at Calvary, we also died, were buried and  made new. 
Though we   were in  slavery for   a long  time,  we 
experienced a miracle  that changed  slaves to  kings. 
Now we are kings. Please,  help us receive the  grace 
of Christ and  manage our  destiny and  circumstance 
with Jesus  so that   as kings we   may speak, pray, 
praise, and act. And also  help us not be  foolish that 
we may not become slaves to destiny, being trampled 
by afflictions and  trouble. We  pray in  Jesus' name. 
Amen.
