Sunday, November 28th 1999
Title : Even So We Must Love
Reading Scriptures : 1Cor13:1-7

  Love is not something of choice for you to practice or 
not to practice. Love is the essence of life. Without 
love, there is no peace, no happiness, no joy, and no 
meaning. It is written in 1 Corinthians 13:1-3 about the 
indispensability of love, "If I speak in the tongues of 
men and of angels, but have not love, I am only a 
resounding gong or a clanging cymbal." It is wonderful 
to speak many languages and have the ability to sound 
as beautiful as angels. However, if such ability is not 
done in love, it is meaningless much like a resounding 
gong, and is hypocritical. "If I have the gift of prophecy 
and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and 
can move mountains, but have no love, I am nothing." 
If a man had the power to tell the future exactly and 
had all such knowledge, he would be paid an enormous 
sum of money or even become a leader of a nation. If 
on top of that he could move mountains, well, he would 
be a great man indeed. However, if he lacked love, all 
of these are worthless. In other words, knowledge and 
power without love is valueless. "If I give all I possess 
to the poor and surrender my body to the flames, but 
have not love, I gain nothing." A man may do great 
things, but without love they are worthless. Giving 
everything is wonderful. Throwing oneself to the flames 
for another is a great sacrifice. However, if it is not for 
love but for some other selfish motive or for some 
political or other gain, all is worthless. When a man 
does away with love in his life, no matter how great 
his life may seem to be, it is actually valueless and of 
not much worth.
  Having love is not a matter of choice. Living without 
love is an absurd state of being, a life of fooling oneself 
he is all right. Then what is this thing called love? 
How can we live with love? The Bible tells us clearly 
how this can be done.

  First, love is patient. Because parents love their 
children, they watch over them as they grow, sacrificing 
themselves patiently for them to become independent. It 
is because love is in the hearts of the parents. I read a 
story once about a young man who lost both of his 
eyes due to an accident. The young man became bitter 
and condemned his very own life even as his mother 
waited patiently on him. Then one day his mother told 
him there was a donor and he would receive one eye 
from the person. 
  However, he was bitter and complained about 
receiving only one eye. She begged him to be happy 
with one eye and took him to the hospital for the 
operation. After the operation, his bandage was removed 
and he was able to see, to see his mother looking at 
him blissfully with a bandage over her one eye. She 
was the donor for his eye! She said, "I wanted to give 
you both eyes, but then if I were blind I would be a 
great burden to you. So I could only give you one eye." 
Love can overcome all adversity. Even Christ waits 
patiently as we commit horrible sins.
  It is written in Hebrews 12:3, "Consider Him who 
endured such opposition from sinful men, so that you 
will not grow weary and lose heart." If Christ were 
impatient with us, all of us would have already been 
struck by lightening. We must also refrain from judging 
our neighbors and pray patiently for them.
  It is written in Luke 6:32, "If you love those who love 
you, what credit is that to you? Even 'sinners' love 
those who love them."

  A second quality of love is gentleness. Being gentle 
means having warm and soft qualities. Being fierce, 
inhumane, cold, or unfeeling is not love. Love is warm 
and soft.
  It is written in Matthew 11:29, "Take my yoke upon 
you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in 
heart, and you will find rest for your souls." This is 
love, being gentle and humble.
  It is written in Numbers 12:3, "Now Moses was a 
very humble man, more humble than anyone else on the 
face of the earth." Being humble means being obedient. 
Being rebellious against authority or others is not a 
quality of love.
  It is written in Titus 3:2, "To slander no one, to be 
peaceable and considerate, and to show true humility 
toward all men."

  Third, love is not jealous. Being jealous and hating 
those better than you is not love. Being jealous of your 
friend's promotion or verbally criticizing him in hatred 
is not love. It is written in Galatians 5:25-26, "Since we 
live by the Spirit, let us keep in step with the Spirit. 
Let us not become conceited, provoking and envying 
each other."

  Fourth, love is not boastful. A person's boastfulness 
can damage the well being of others. Rather than 
shouting to the world about your accomplishments, you 
should hide them so others will not feel inferior. Those 
who are boastful will only make enemies of others.
  It is written in James 3:14-16, "But if you harbor 
bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not 
boast about it or deny the truth. Such 'wisdom' does 
not come down from heaven but is earthly and 
unspiritual of the devil. For where you have envy and 
selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil 
practice." Boastfulness stirs jealousy and brings disorder 
and conflict. This is not love.

  Fifth, love is not proud. Being proud is much like 
looking down on others, in effect driving friends away. 
When you become very proud, you will start losing 
your beloved friends.
  It is written in Proverbs 16:18, "Pride goes before 
destruction, a haughty spirit 
before a fall." When a person starts looking proudly at 
himself and walks around with a stiff neck, he is on a 
downhill course. After the '88 Seoul Olympics, Koreans 
became proud and arrogant going around the world 
acting like big-shots, spending money like water. Then 
we were brought down to earth by the "IMF crisis."

  Sixth, love is not rude. The closer you are to 
someone, the more courteous you need to be. A rude 
husband or a rude wife will only lead the family to 
unhappiness. After the "IMF crisis," many couples 
argued with one another causing tragedies. According to 
the recent statistics from the 119 rescue calls, the 
number of domestic violence calls went from 500 in 
1997 to 2,500 in 1998. There were cases of homes being 
burned down, suicide threats, poisoning and physical 
violence. In anger, many poured gasoline throughout 
their homes or opened the gas valve to set the house 
on fire. This increased by 70%. Next were the suicides 
through poisoning, hanging and so on. Some of them 
were rooted in rudeness. Being rude and uncaring for 
one another, they stirred up the anger of the others, 
which escalated into total destruction. Love is not rude. 
The closer you are to someone, the more polite you 
need to be. Love acts politely to parents, teachers, 
neighbors and all others.
  It is written in Proverbs 21:24, "The proud and 
arrogant man 'Mocker' is his name; he behaves with 
overweening pride." God cannot love those who are 
rude. In all things we must act with politeness.

  Seventh, love is not self-seeking. We must never 
forget we live with others. Being selfish or self-seeking 
is not a good attitude. We Koreans at times are truly 
selfish. If it's good for me, that's okay. It doesn't 
matter about others. This is wrong. We must realize we 
live in a society with many people. Always thinking of 
others is love. This is the way to love. It is not an act 
of love to be selfish. It is written in Romans 13:10, 
"Love does no harm to its neighbor. Therefore, love is 
the fulfillment of the law." A person who has love does 
not harm his neighbors. They show love for others. 
Look at Mother Theresa. She lived for the poor. 
Although she passed away on September 6th, 1997, she 
worked all her life for the poor and left 17 public 
facilities. She poured out 
her love on the handicapped, the ill, the prostitutes, and 
various other marginal people. Her last dying wish was 
that we would love one another. Giving love with no 
expectation of any gain is true love. True love does not 
think of self-gain but lives while giving love to others. 
This is love.

  Eighth, love is not easily angered. Hurting others with 
anger only makes you miserable. A quick-tempered 
father only makes his wife and children suffer. The one 
who gets angry looks only sub-human to others. Anger 
can destroy harmony in the family and many homes are 
wrecked by it. A father who is quick-tempered and a 
wife who is quick-tempered only wreck the peace and 
harmony in the family.
  It is written in James 1:19-20, "My dear brothers, 
take note of this: Everyone should be quick to listen, 
slow to speak and slow to become angry, for man's 
anger does not bring about the righteous life that God 
desires." An angry person cannot glorify God. Moses 
became angry as he hit the rock to bring forth clear 
water. However because of his anger, God was 
displeased with Moses and prevented his entrance into 
the Promised Land. God punished such a great man as 
Moses because of his anger. We must not let anger 
overcome us.

  Ninth, love keeps no record of wrongs. Your thoughts 
reflect your character. You can tell a person's character 
by what he thinks.
  It is written in Proverbs 4:23, "Above all else, guard 
your heart, for it is the wellspring of life." Wicked 
thoughts make a person wicked. We must always be 
careful about what we are thinking. We can't stop a 
bird from flying over us but we must prevent it from 
setting up its nest on our heads. The devil flies over us 
at all times, however we must not allow him to land on 
our heads and start filling our thoughts with evil. As 
we live in this world, many things assail us: written 
material, pictures, videos, and other media such as the 
internet. Many are lewd and obscene. These days I am 
afraid to even turn on the TV. So much wickedness 
and obscenity come through the airwaves. Our society 
is filled with it. However, we must not let it fill our 
minds. We must block it out. Love does not keep 
thoughts of wrong.

  Tenth, love does not delight in evil. Love is righteous. 
Evil only seeks to hate; it does not love. Evil makes 
people hate and injure others, doesn't it? Recently three 
women fell into evil because of a fur coat and  although 
they had been so close in the past, they became horrid 
enemies. Evil begets hatred and enemies. Love is 
righteous. Where there is righteousness, there is love. 
God died and bled on the Cross to do away with evil.
  It is written in 1 Peter 3:18, "For Christ died for sins 
once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring 
you to God. He was put to death in the body but made 
alive by the Spirit." Love never delights in 
unrighteousness.

  Eleventh, love rejoices in the truth. Love does not lie 
or is it hypocritical. It is unbelievable how much some 
people lie! When you become a habitual liar, no one will 
ever believe you, even when you speak the truth. A 
man asked another, "Why is it bad to lie?" If people 
think you are a liar, no one will ever believe you. That 
is why it is bad. That's right, no one believes a 
habitual liar. All others abandon such a man. Love does 
not lie, nor is it hypocritical. Love does not deceive 
others.
  It is written in Ephesians 4:25, "Therefore each of you 
must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his 
neighbor, for we are all members of one body." 
Although many think it may be harmful to live 
according to wisdom and righteousness in this world, it 
is lies and misdeeds which make this world so wicked. 
Because of these false testimonies, we have such a 
ruckus in Korea today. Falsehood brings distrust and it 
leads to havoc. Love finds joy in truth and does not 
delight in falsehood.

  Twelfth, love perseveres, trusts and always hopes. 
This is the final word on love. Love always looks at 
the final goal and will always be victorious as God 
walks with such a man filled with love. By persevering 
even during times of hardship and staying strong in 
your faith as you move forward shows your true love. 
With love in your heart, you must endure and 
persevere. Being fickle is not a characteristic of love. 
Love is believing that God plans wondrous things for 
you in the end. Love endures and waits. It is not easily 
discouraged.
  Once I heard this story. A Japanese man was building 
a house. He plastered the inner and outer walls but left 
an empty space in between. After 10 years, one outer 
wall was broken down. A lizard was in between the 
walls. A nail had been driven into the lizard's tail. That 
lizard had been in that wall for 10 years. How could a 
lizard possibly live for ten years in the wall? The lizard 
was a male lizard and the female lizard had persevered 
and brought food for the male lizard for 10 longs years 
as she waited for the day he would be free. This was a 
truly amazing story. We need to have this kind of 
perseverance and faith as we endure many things in 
this world. This is living in love. Such a simple word 
as love has very deep meaning. 
  It is written in 1 John 4:8, "Whoever does not love 
does not know God, because God is love."
  It is written in Romans 5:5, "And hope does not 
disappoint us, because God has poured out His love into 
our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom He has given us." 
When the love of Jesus Christ enters our hearts, our 
very character reflects this love. No matter what 
adversity we may face, we must tell ourselves, "Even 
so, I must love." You may want to strangle someone's 
neck, but even so, we must love. You may think, "Oh 
boy, I can't stand him." Even so, you must love. We 
must love others. Love must be the very basis of our 
lives. As we live in this world, there will always be 
someone we can't stand. There are those we can't 
stand, those we don't want to see again, those we want 
to punch. As a human being, it is not unnatural. Even 
so, we must always tell ourselves, "Even so, we must 
love." We must love. You should pray, "Oh God, help 
me practice Christ's love." You must always practice 
the love of Christ. When you are fighting with your 
wife and want to end it all by a separation or a 
divorce, say to yourself, "Even so, I must love. Oh God, 
help me. For I cannot do it alone." When you pray like 
this your heart will change. Christ told us to give water 
to our enemy when he is thirsty; give food to our 
enemy when he is hungry. How? "Even so, I must love. 
Oh God help me." Only love can bring final victory and 
glory and the meaning of life. It is written, "For God so 
loved the world He gave His only begotten Son. 
Whosoever believes in Him will have eternal life." Man 
is extremely vile and worthy of death, yet because of 
God's love Christ was sent to us to die on the Cross 
and to bleed and be torn. This is God's love. The very 
core of all happiness is love. Without love, no great 
wealth, fame, or power can have any meaning in life. 
They cannot bring happiness and joy. That is why for 
us to be happy and live in peace and have joy, we 
must live well with love in our hearts. We must learn 
to live for others and to love them in order for us to 
live in happiness and joy. This is the love of Christ 
which is poured upon us by the Holy Spirit. When you 
have a righteous attitude toward life, God will always 
supply you with love.
  For us to have this kind of attitude we must always 
self-examine ourselves and tell ourselves, "Even so, we 
must love." Repeat after me, "Even so, we must love."

  When you do so, God will indeed fill you with love 
through the Holy Spirit. Then you can have the love of 
Christ and can live in His love. And as you live, you 
will have faith, hope, joy, and happiness as you live a 
life of success. 

-Prayer-
  Oh glorious and holy God our Father, at times we fail 
greatly in our duty to live in love. At times our hearts 
are filled with hatred and tragedy. Oh Father God, we 
pray to You today and ask for Your grace and help so 
that we can live in love. We open our hearts to You 
and confess our lovelessness. Pour Your love upon us 
oh Lord. Help us to see in love, hear in love, think in 
love, speak in love and act in love. Oh Father, we know 
we must live in love. Give us the strength to love 
others. You have shown us Your great love. Help us to 
live in accordance and follow the great example of Your 
love. In Christ's name, Amen.
