Sunday, January 3th 1999
Title : New Year Given to Us
Scriptures Reading : Heb 11:1-6

We now face the new  year with great expectation  and 
excitement. We hope  that something  good will  happen 
to us, that  this would  be a more  successful, pleasant, 
and happier year,  that there  would be no  problems or 
trouble and  that we  would experience  the blessing  of 
God. We hope all these wishes would come true. For he 
who is  ready to  be blessed  will face  the  opportunity 
and be able to capture it. Yet, he who is not ready will 
not recognize the  chance no  matter how  good it  may 
be.  Since  he   is not   ready  he   will not   take  the 
opportunity. Therefore, we must be ready to capture the 
opportunity of blessing  which will  come to  us in this 
new year. What type of attitude should we have toward 
this new year? 

First, we should have clear dreams in our minds to live 
successful lives this new  year. The Bible  tells us that 
people who have no dream will perish. That means that 
we will be prosperous only  with dreams. What kind  of 
dreams can  we have  in  our minds?  God commanded 
Abraham  to   have  a  clear   dream  for  the   coming 
blessings. 
In Genesis 13:14-15, "The Lord said to Abram after Lot 
had parted  from him,  'Lift up  your eyes  from where 
you are and  look north and  south, east  and west. All 
the land   that you  see I  will give  to  you and  your 
offspring forever.' "  God commanded Abraham  to look 
north and south, east and west  and then have a dream 
about the land that  he would own. The  Lord promised 
Abraham to give the  land that he saw  to him and his 
offspring forever.  It meant  that to   possess he should 
look first and have a certain dream. God clearly showed 
Joshua the land that he  had to take. Before  he entered 
Canaan, God had put a dream into the heart of Joshua. 
We read in Joshua 1:1-6, "After the death of Moses the 
servant of  the Lord,  the Lord  said to   Joshua son of 
Nun, Moses'  aide: 'Moses   my servant is   dead. Now 
then, you and  all these people,  get ready  to cross the 
Jordan River   into the   land I  am  about  to  give  to 
them--to the   Israelites. I  will  give you   every place 
where you  set your  foot, as  I promised  Moses. Your 
territory will  extend from  the desert  to Lebanon,  and 
from the  great river,  the Euphrates  -- all  the Hittite 
country -- to the  Great Sea on the  west. No one will 
be able to  stand up  against you all  the days  of your 
life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you; I will 
never  leave  you  nor   forsake you.   'Be strong   and 
courageous, because you will lead these people to inherit 
the land I  swore to  their forefathers to  give them.'  "  
Here the Lord gave Joshua  a clear vision. He  told him 
to look at the land  to have and commanded  him to be 
strong and   courageous in  order  to occupy   the land. 
Likewise, the Lord gave a clear vision  to Abraham and 
Joshua. Then where is the land that the Lord has given 
to us?  In this  year of  1999, which  dream should  we 
cherish and what should we take? 
God  offered  us  the  land  of  blessing  made  by  the 
redemption of the cross.  We have to look  up to Jesus, 
who is the Lord  of faith and  makes us whole and  we 
must look at the land  that He has bought  by shedding 
His blood on  the cross  for those  who believe in  Him 
and take it. The  Lord has prepared  for us the land  of 
forgiveness and righteousness through the  blood on the 
cross. We have to  look at the  land, on which  we can 
be forgiven  from all  our sins  and righteous  by faith, 
with dreams and capture it. 
Moreover, Jesus has driven out the world  and the devil 
and given us the heaven and the Holy Spirit. We should 
have the vision to take the heaven and receive the Holy 
Spirit. That is the land we have to occupy. The heaven 
is ours. The scripture says,  "You will not say that  the 
heaven is here or  there, for it  is in you."  The heaven 
and the Holy Spirit are the land that Jesus has given to 
us. 
Through  Jesus  Christ  we  can  also  remove  all  our 
concerns, anxieties,   uneasiness, despair,   sorrows, and 
our physical and mental  troubles by taking the  land of 
joy and  healing, for  the Lord  has given  us the  land. 
Surely  He   carried  our  sorrows   and  took  up   our 
infirmities and sicknesses. He  paid for the  land of joy, 
healing and health and  offered it to  us. We must  take 
the land. That is the dream given to us. 
The Lord   bore the  curse  on  the cross   for us   and 
redeemed us from the curse  of the law by  becoming a 
curse for  us and  became poor  in order  for us  to be 
rich. Here is the land that the Lord  granted us to take, 
which   is  the   land  of   the  blessing   of  Abraham, 
prosperity and abundance. That is the land the Lord has 
given to us. We  should look at the  land like Abraham 
and Joshua, enter and occupy it. 
The Lord destroyed death and hell by dying  and rising. 
He gave us resurrection, eternal  life and heaven as the 
promised land. We have  to look at it  and keep that in 
mind. We should enter and  take the land. We  certainly 
have the  land that  the Lord  has granted  us. No  one 
who does  not believe  in the  Lord will  see, hear,  nor 
conceive. Yet, God has prepared for those who love Him 
this beautiful   land through  the  cross.  Therefore, we 
have to look at the land and keep it in mind and take it 
through prayer and  faith. In  this new year  we should 
have that clear  dream. Without  a dream  we can't  do 
anything, nor take anything. If you  have such a dream, 
believe, pray and  praise, all  will go  well with  you in 
good health and  you will  have abundant  life, even  as 
your soul is getting along well. 
In the Bible, "From  the days of  John the Baptist  until 
now,  the   kingdom  of   heaven  has   been forcefully 
advancing, and forceful men lay hold of  it." You should 
have a clear dream of the heaven and enter by faith  so 
that you may  take the  Canaan of Christ  flowing with 
milk and honey under the cross. Please be sure  to keep 
that dream in mind, meditate on it day and  night, think 
of it as if it were, believe and cry out. 

Second, we should hold  the hand of the  Holy Spirit in 
this new year. If the Israelites had  not been led by the 
pillars of clouds  and fire, they  would not  have passed 
through   the    wilderness   successfully.    Since   the 
wilderness was so hot, they would have failed.  Yet, the 
Holy Spirit protected them  through the pillar of  clouds. 
By night the  wilderness was  so cold that  rocks burst 
out. But the  Holy Spirit  kept them warm  through the 
pillar of fire. While we live in this  world of wilderness, 
we  earnestly  need  the  care  of  the   Holy Spirit   to 
overcome trials like  the hot  sun and  affliction like  an 
awfully cold night.  For the Holy  Spirit comforts, cares 
for and guides us. 
John 14:16-17 states,  "And I  will ask  the Father, and 
He will  give  you another  Counselor  to be   with you 
forever -- the Spirit of truth. The world can not accept 
Him, because it neither  sees Him nor knows  Him. But 
you know Him,  for He  lives with you  and will  be in 
you." When we receive  Jesus as our  Savior, God does 
not abandon   us like   orphans, but   He has   sent us 
another Counselor.   The word,  "Counselor" means   the 
One sent by God to be always with us to help  us. God 
didn't throw you and  me into the world  of wilderness. 
The Holy Spirit of  God is with us  to take care of  us. 
This Spirit of  God works  with us  at any  moment to 
help. 
According to Isaiah  11:2, "The  Spirit of the  Lord will 
rest   on  Him   --  the   Spirit   of  wisdom   and  of 
understanding, the Spirit  of counsel  and of power,  the 
Spirit of knowledge  and of the  fear of the  Lord." The 
Holy Spirit is the Spirit  of wisdom, for the  Lord gives 
you wisdom through  Him so  that you  may solve  the 
problem. If we ask for the Holy Spirit, He will show us 
the way. 
He is the Spirit of wisdom  and of understanding, takes 
away foolishness from  us and  gives us understanding. 
He    makes   us    understand   our    situations   and 
circumstances; our present and  future that we may  act 
with insight. 
The Holy Spirit is the Spirit of counsel, for He gives us 
counseling. He is a good God who instructs us  what to 
do and guides us in good ways.  The Holy Spirit is the 
Spirit of power,  for He gives  us power. He  makes us 
work and grants us power to come up with it. 
He gives us power to live  as fathers, mothers, children 
and social   people. The   Holy Spirit  is  the  Spirit  of 
knowledge. He  gives  us knowledge   so that we   may 
understand the truth  of God  and His word.  The Holy 
Spirit is the Spirit of fear of Jehovah. 
He touches  and changes  our  hearts so  that we  may 
always fear,  worship, love  and follow  God. The  Holy 
Spirit is the  Spirit of holiness.  He helps us  not to  be 
stained by the mortal  world nor to belong  to it, as oil 
is not mixed with water, but to live separated  from the 
world. 
This new year, I urge you  in the name of the  Lord to 
live  a  successful  life  by  acknowledging,  welcoming, 
accepting, relying   upon and   pleading with   the Holy 
Spirit. Only can the Holy Spirit lead us to the way that 
God has prepared  for those  who love  Him. The  Holy 
Spirit is  not just   a word. He  is  now with  you and 
within you.  The Holy   Spirit is silent,  but  when you 
recognize, invite and depend upon Him,  He will lead us 
through dreams, visions, voices,  meditation, thoughts or 
ideas. When   we live  with  a  great Tutor,   the Holy 
Spirit, we will live successful lives this new year. 

Third, to live successful lives,  we should not be mixed 
up with the order of our lives. It is written in Matthew 
6:33, "Seek  first  His kingdom  and  His righteousness, 
and all these things will be given to you as well."  We 
certainly have things to  do first and later  in our lives, 
don't we? These days children who are brought up well 
begin to eat at  the table after  their parents do.  But if 
children are not  raised well, they  eat first  and do not 
care if  their parents  eat or  not. They  are  not polite. 
There are  things  to be   done first  and later   in this 
world. As for  good presents, parents  first should  open 
them, and then  their children  later. There  is an  order 
for us to do something. We should not ignore the order. 
Today we hear that  some students report their  teacher 
to the police  and beat  the teacher.  How can  teachers 
teach them?  They  should first  know  how to  respect 
their teacher   and then   they can   learn. But  without 
honoring teachers, how can they be taught? 
Unless we  distinguish between  things to  do first  and 
later,  we  will  fail.  God  told  us  to  seek  first  His 
kingdom and His righteousness  in this world. First  we 
have to   seek His  kingdom. We   should long  for the 
kingdom of  God  at all  times.  We should  consider  it 
most important   to read  the  word  and pray   for the 
heaven. When we wake  up in the  morning, we should 
first seek the kingdom of God by reading His word and 
pray. The kingdom  of God on  earth is  the church, so 
we should   keep the  Lord's day   holy and  serve the 
church by doing our best.  We should also wait for  the 
new heaven and earth with great expectation for eternal 
heaven. We have to keep the heaven  first in our minds 
and look   forward to   it. Then   we should   seek His 
righteousness. The righteousness of God is Jesus. 
In 2 Corinthian 5:21, "God made Him who had no sin to 
be sin  for us,  so that  in Him  we might  become the 
righteousness of God." Since Jesus is our righteousness, 
we should heartily love  Him, always honor  and preach 
Him. We have to live with Jesus all the time, too. If we 
seek first His kingdom and His righteousness,  our Lord 
will take charge of our  problems without fail. He  says, 
"Do not worry  about what to  eat, drink, or  wear. For 
the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly 
Father knows that  you need  them. But  seek first His 
kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will 
be given to you as well." 
In Philippians 4:19 we read, "And my God  will meet all 
your needs  according to  His glorious  riches in  Christ 
Jesus."  When  we  seek  first  His  kingdom  and  His 
righteousness and  pray  for our   needs, our Lord   will 
answer and help  us. He  will fill and  bless us.  Hence, 
when we seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, 
our soul will also get  along well. And then  things will 
go well with us in good  health. If our souls are not  in 
good condition but  things prosper with  us, it is  of no 
use, is it? For  we will be  the children of  hell. God is 
most   interested    in   saving    our   souls.   If    we 
whole-heartedly  obey   Him,  He   will  grant  us   the 
blessing and grace of prosperity and health. 

Fourth, we  have  to be   positive at  all times   to live 
successful lives this new year.  He who looks at things 
on the dark and negative  side, will be overwhelmed by 
that  power.  Mass  communication  likes  to  say  dark 
things more than  bright so it  makes people  upset and 
sad rather  than happy  and positive.  According to  the 
newspaper, the radio  or TV, we  find bad things  more 
than good.   They should  be changed.   That's because 
there have  been bad  news until  now since  man  was 
made, including both sad  and negative news.  However, 
our lives have  not been better  by reporting  those bad 
news. If   we look   at dark  and  negative  things and 
grieve, we will be captured by that power. 
Job 3:25 reads, "What I feared has come upon me; what 
I dreaded has happened  to me." Job  always considered 
his ruin and  feared it with  negative thoughts. At  last, 
he faced that and  confessed, "What I  feared has come 
upon me; what I dreaded has happened to me." 
In Proverb 10:24, "What the wicked dreads will overtake 
him; what the righteous desire  will be granted." That's 
why we  should  not be   negative but  positive in   our 
lives. We  must not  speak ill  of others  but highly   of 
them. As to our lives,  we should not think of  them as 
hopeless, but we should pick out something hopeful  and 
speak of that often. 
During the  past year  of 1998,  we had  to go  through 
severe  trials  under  IMF.  We  suffered  from  serious 
problems. Quite a  few unjust  things overwhelmed  our 
Korean society. Yet, since  we made every  effort to be 
hopeful and  positive, we   now find the  way  to avoid 
IMF. Therefore,   we should  always  have the   law of 
visualization and  think positively  and hopefully.  If we 
are positive and hope at all times, we will be caught by 
its power and enter into a positive realm. 
In Mark  9:23, Jesus  said, "If  you can?  Everything is 
possible for him  who believes."  Because everything  is 
possible, we will not be negative but positive. 
Philippians 4:13 tells  us, "I  can do  everything through 
Him who gives me strength." Though 12 men were sent 
to spy out Canaan, ten of  them and those who listened 
to them   were not  allowed  to enter   the land  except 
Joshua and Caleb.  They all  started at  the same  place 
and spied out  Canaan for  40 days  and 40 nights,  but 
ten of them were  negative and Joshua and  Caleb were 
positive. When the  people heard from  the ten negative 
spies,  they   were depressed,   cried  bitterly,   resented 
Moses saying  that they'd   rather run away   to Egypt 
with a new leader. Then  God showed up there and  He 
summoned the ten negative reporters and killed them at 
once and   made those  who  listened  to them   wander 
around the wilderness for 40 years and die. 
Yet, in Numbers  14:7-9 we  read the  report of Joshua 
and Caleb, "Joshua and Caleb said to the entire Israelite 
assembly, "The land we passed through and explored is 
exceedingly good.  If the  Lord is  pleased with  us, He 
will lead us into that land, a land flowing with milk and 
honey, and will give it to us. Only do  not rebel against 
the Lord.  And do  not be  afraid of  the people  of the 
land, because we will swallow them up. Their protection 
is gone, but  the Lord is  with us. Do  not be afraid  of 
them." They  were so   positive, weren't they?  On  the 
contrary, the  other  ten spies  reported,  "The land  we 
explored devours  those living  in it.  Its mountains  are 
high, its valleys are deep and the cities are fortified. We 
even saw descendants  of Anak  there and  all of  them 
are of great size. We seemed like grass- hoppers in our 
own eyes. We will never occupy the  land. We are sure 
to be captured."  They gave totally  tragic and negative 
reports. As a  result, they were  abandoned. In  spite of 
exploring the  same place  for the  same 40  days, why 
were ten of them  negative and the other  two positive? 
It's up to our attitude. If  we know and believe in God, 
we will have no room for negative power. 
Romans 8:28 states,  "We know  that in all  things God 
works for the good  of those who  love Him, who have 
been called  according to   His purpose." It  means  that 
God will finally  make good  everything, including  good 
and bad;  success and  failure;  joy and  sorrow; health 
and sickness; victory and  defeat. That's why  we must 
be positive.  "Who shall  separate us  from the  love  of 
Christ?  Shall  troubles  or  hardship  or  nakedness  or 
famine or danger or sword?  No, in all these things  we 
are more than conquerors  through Him who  loved us," 
said the apostle  Paul. Therefore,  we have  to think  of 
God and have a positive, active  and creative attitude in 
our lives.   Instead of  thinking, "I   can't, I  don't, it's 
impossible," we should say, "I  can do," and go forward 
with faith that all is  going to be well  with us, for the 
Lord  is  with  us.  We   must have   strongly positive 
attitudes. 
In   this  new   year   there  will   be   great   changes 
individually, nationally and internationally. The European 
countries will be united by the currency, "Euro" and the 
world will   be against   one another   in economy  and 
economic growth will be slow, which will give us trials. 
Moreover, there are earthquakes and famines throughout 
the world,  and  by strange  phenomenal  situations, we 
now face  the serious  change of  weather.  In order  to 
survive in this terrible environment, we should  not look 
at  the  dark  side  but  the  bright;  not  negative  but 
positive, looking up to Jehovah. If the people of God are 
with Him, why should they draw  back? The Bible say, 
"If he shrinks back, I will not be pleased with  him. My 
righteous one will live by  faith." We must live, looking 
up to God with faith. God is a good God. He says,  "He 
who did not spare His  own Son, but gave  Him up for 
us all   -- how   will He   not also,  along  with  Him, 
graciously give us all things?" 

The destiny that we say is  up to the hand of God.  He 
is alpha and omega; the first and the last; the beginning 
and the end. What He opens o  one can shut, and what 
He shuts no one can open. God  will pour His blessings 
only upon those who are ready. 
Please don't forget about  Hebrew 11:1 and 6,  "Faith is 
being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we 
do not  see." "Without  faith it  is impossible  to please 
God, because anyone  who comes  to Him must  believe 
that He exists and that He rewards those who earnestly 
seek Him."  God  wants to  reward  you and   me. "My 
thoughts about you I know: I give you hope and peace," 
says the Lord. May  you this  new year be prepared in 
mind that  in any   circumstance you can  depend  upon 
God's power   and grace  and have   blessings and  the 
Holy Spirit! 

<Prayer>
Dear heavenly God our holy Father who has great love, 
the new year has come  to us and we  have to manage 
it. In order to make it successful, please help us have a 
clear dream   of the  fivefold gospel   and the  threefold 
blessings given to us through the  cross. Let us always 
recognize, welcome,   accept, rely  upon our   Tutor and 
Comforter, the   Holy Spirit,  and  get  help from   Him. 
Since we can not live successful lives without the  Holy 
Spirit, please help us  through Him, Lord. Nowadays  so 
many people lead their lives  negatively. Father, help us 
put away the  negative view  and live  with everlasting 
hope and positive changes  in our minds. Please  control 
us and help us have  a clear order by  doing first what 
to do first and then what to do  later. Allow us to seek 
first His  kingdom and  His righteousness,  we  pray in 
Jesus' name, Amen. 
