Sunday, November 7th, 1999
Title : Successful Human Relationships
Scripture Reading: Matthew 5:38-42

  God says, "It  is not good  for man  to be alone."  So 
man was made  to live with  his family, neighbors,  and 
society. According   to the   research of   a socialist,   a 
man's success   and failure   in the   society absolutely 
depends on his human relationships.  In other words, on 
a man's success,  his skills  and ability  have just  18% 
influence   and  his   human   relationships   have  82% 
influence.
  Today, many households are being broken. It's mostly 
caused by the disharmony  of their human relationships. 
Therefore, in  order to  have good  human relationships, 
we have to  reflect on ourselves,  keep our  good points 
and correct our  weak points. Then  we can build  right 
human relationships. Without  any reason, we  must not 
attribute our faults to the work of the devil. We have to 
repent of   our faults   heartily and  pray  with  humble 
hearts that our  characters may be  changed. Then how 
do we have successful human relationships?

  First,   we  should   always   consider  other   people. 
Westerners  rarely  take  their  children  to  restaurants. 
When they do, they never  allow their children to  move 
around. Yet,   Korean children   play around  and  make 
noises in the restaurant. If  we tried to stop them,  their 
parents would be angry with us. It could severely affect 
their human relationships in the future. Westerners don't 
let their children  move around  in the  sanctuary. They 
make their   children be  quiet, even   by beating  them. 
However, while I was preaching  at Korean churches in 
America, some  children often   came to the  pulpit  and 
pulled me by the  clothes, but their parents  didn't care. 
The children were not controlled at all and their parents 
didn't think about others. They only loved their children. 
We should   thoroughly instruct   our children   to obey 
others.  We   ought to   always   consider others   with 
Jesus-centered attitudes in  our lives. If  we are selfish, 
we won't be able to make good human relationships.
  Matthew 7:12  says, "So  in everything,  do to  others 
what you would have them do to you, for this sums up 
the Law  and the  Prophets." Likewise,  when  we have 
deep interests in others for  serving them, we can  have 
good human relationships.

  Second, we should not  criticize others negatively.  An 
old Korean  proverb says,  "Without  its feet,  a spoken 
word will walk 400 kilometers." Another one says, "Rats 
will hear  our speaking  at night   and so will  birds at 
day." If we secretly tell a  friend about someone's fault, 
he'll say it to his  close friend. In this  way, our words 
will spread  very  fast. That's   why we  may evaluate 
someone's character but  should not judge.  We need to 
evaluate someone by how capable and competent  one is 
but we must not judge.
  Matthew 7:1-5 says,  "Do not judge,  or you  too will 
be judged. For in the same way you judged others, you 
will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be 
measured to  you. Why   do you look  at  the speck  of 
sawdust in your brother's  eye and pay  no attention to 
the plank in your own  eye? How can you  say to your 
brother, 'Let me take the speck out  of your eye,' when 
all the  time there  is a  plank in  your own  eye? You 
hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye,  and 
then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your 
brother's eye." We always put our faults behind us  and 
others' before  us, and  we  look at  others' faults   and 
don't see ours. That's  why when we  get together, we 
easily find   fault with   others and   judge them.   This 
becomes a terrible factor to break human relationships.

  Third, to have  good human  relationships, we  should 
not take advantage of others. We 
should have   giving relationships   with others.   If we 
exploit others, they will  feel used later.  People worship 
God at  the  church, but   many of them   tend to  take 
advantage of Him.
  Once I earnestly prayed for a  sick person and visited 
him at home. Then as soon as he was healed, he didn't 
attend the church.  So I  asked him, "You're  healed by 
God's grace. Why don't you come to church?"  He said, 
"I went to church  to be healed,  and now I am  healed. 
So I don't need to  go to church any  longer." He came 
to church  only to  exploit God.  God may  be exploited 
once, but He will never be again.
  We read in  Matthew 22:37-39,  "Jesus replied:  'Love 
the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your 
soul and  with  all your   mind.' This is   the first  and 
greatest commandment. And the second is like it: 'Love 
your neighbor as yourself.'" We ought to truly love God 
and our neighbor but not to  take advantage of them. If 
a husband uses his  wife as the  tool of his  desire and 
life, she won't love him. If a wife thinks of her husband 
as the means of  making money for  her happiness, she 
is wrong. True  love causes  others to  be true,  so we 
should  not  exploit  others.  If  others  think  they  are 
exploited, they will feel scorned.
  Romans 13:10   states, "Love   does no   harm to   its 
neighbor. Therefore love  is the fulfillment  of the  law." 
True love covers everything.

  Fourth, in order to have true human  relationships, we 
should speak highly of others. Compliments make  those, 
who receive them, glorified. When we are applauded, we 
feel exalted and happy. Praise  adds courage and joy  to 
our lives.
  Proverbs 17:22   tells us,  "A cheerful   heart is  good 
medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones."
  Proverbs 18:20-21  also says,  "From the  fruit of  his 
mouth a man's stomach is filled; with the  harvest from 
his lips he is satisfied. The tongue has the power of life 
and death, and those who love  it will eat its fruit."  To 
make   good    human   relationships,    we   have    to 
acknowledge others' strong points  and praise for  them. 
If a husband gives compliments to his wife for her good 
points, she will feel glorified  and warm in her heart.  It 
is the   same to   the wife.   She should   not nag   her 
husband for  his weak  points. But  if she  admires  her 
husband for his  good points, he  will be so  happy and 
exalted. Compliments  will bring   courage and joy   into 
our lives.   Therefore, to   have good   relationships we 
should not neglect to speak highly of others.
 
 Fifth, in order  to make good  human relationships, we 
have to pay attention to others. Some people may  insist 
on their own opinions and make excuses.   If others are 
about to speak,  they say,  "Come on. Pay  heed to  me. 
Listen to me."  They don't give  others any opportunity 
to speak. They strongly  persist in  their own  opinions. 
Many  women,   who came   to  me   to  discuss  their 
problems,  told   me  they  wouldn't   live  any  longer, 
because once their husbands began to speak, they didn't 
let their wives  say anything.  They said  they couldn't 
stand their husbands and  cried. Moreover, some  middle 
and high  school students  came to   me and said,  "My 
parents are stubborn. They won't listen  to me and just 
say, 'Do this. Do  that. Do this.  Do that.' If I'm  going 
to speak,  they say,  'OK. That's  all. You  may go!'  I 
can't stand my parents, for they don't try to understand 
me." You know it is  very hard to listen  to others. We 
should not persist in our opinion nor make excuses.
  Proverbs 10:19 says,  "When words  are many, sin  is 
not absent,  but he  who holds   his tongue is  wise." I 
often counsel  my church  members, so  I see  many of 
them say only their  opinions without stopping. If  I ask 
them to  get to  the point,  they say,  "Yes," and  again 
begin to talk  about themselves.  some women begin  to 
talk about  their childhood   and continue to  talk  about 
their whole lives. If I ask them what they have in mind, 
they say,  "Yes, I'll  try, but  listen to  me." It  is very 
exhausting to   listen to  others.  However, listening   to 
others and   trying to  understand  them  are necessary 
elements to making good human relationships.
  Romans  12;15-16  reads,   "Rejoice with   those  who 
rejoice; mourn with those who  mourn. Live in harmony 
with one another.  Do not  be proud,  but be  willing to   
associate  with   people of   low  position.   Do not   be 
conceited." Hence, If we pay heed to those who come to 
discuss,  and   understand  them,  most   of  them  find 
answers and go back.  They  speak a lot,  answer their 
own problems,   thank me  for  answers  and go   back. 
That's why it is necessary to listen to others.

  Sixth, to  have good  human relationships,  we should 
make efforts  to  give a   helping to others.   Instead of 
asking for  help, we  have  to help  others. Just  a  few 
words for  comfort and   encouragement are so   helpful. 
When   we   are  depressed   and   distressed,   a   few 
understanding  and  encouraging  words  will  make  us 
refreshed.
  Proverbs 12:25 says, "An anxious heart weighs a man 
down, but a kind word cheers him  up." Likewise, when 
your neighbor  is afflicted  and  troubled, you  can give 
him good   advice. It'll   make you   have good  human 
relationships. You  ought to  make every  effort to  help 
your neighbor.
  Proverbs 3:27 says, "Do not withhold good from those 
who deserve   it, when  it  is  in your   power to  act." 
Without ability, we can't help, but if possible we should 
try our best to help others.
  Psalm 112:5-6 reads, "Good will  come to him who  is 
generous and lends freely, who conducts his affairs with 
justice. Surely he will never be shaken; a righteous man 
will  be   remembered  forever."  The   Bible  says,   "If 
someone wants to sue you and take your  tunic, let him 
have your cloak  as well. If  someone forces you  to go 
one mile, go with him  two miles. Give to the  one who 
asks you,  and do   not turn away   from the one   who 
wants to borrow from you." Then some people may ask, 
"How do we  lead our  lives if we  give things  to lazy 
people whenever they come and ask us?" We should not 
misunderstand what Jesus says. We  have to take it  as 
it is. "When someone  asks you for  your tunic, let him 
have your cloak as well." Our tunics and cloaks are not 
so expensive. Then it is  simple to act. "When someone 
forces you  to go  one  mile, go  with him  two  miles." 
After we go one mile,  it's not so hard to  go with him 
one  more  mile.  Others   may misinterpret   the word, 
saying, "If  communists ask  us for  Seoul, we  have to 
give them Jeju Island,  too. And if someone  asks us to 
borrow our  car, we  have to  lend them  our house  as 
well."  We  shouldn't  misunderstand  Jesus'  word.  He 
means that  we don't  have to   make trouble with  our 
neighbor just   for small   things. I  respect  Rev.  Jang 
Hwan Kim, one of my  friends, for he does  his best to 
help others. At times he  is so humble to give  someone 
a hand that he even looks like a fool. If someone is put 
into prison, the pastor is sure to visit, pray and care for 
him. People say  that Rev. Jang  Hwan Kim  is so nice 
that he  has  many friends.   There are very   few who 
don't like him.
 
 Seventh, we should  work beyond  our duty. If  we do 
only what  we should  do, we  won't be  able to  make 
good neighbors. If we  sweep only our grounds  but not 
any of  our next  door neighbor's,  how do  we become 
good neighbors? If we sweep our neighbors' grounds as 
well as ours, we may become good neighbors.
  There was a  furniture section in  a department  store 
in Philadelphia.   On a   rainy day,   the owner   of the 
furniture store saw  an old  woman looking  around. He 
ran out to her and said, "Are you looking for furniture?" 
She said, "No.  Because of rain,  I'm waiting  here until 
my driver picks me  up." The owner said,  "Then, come 
in and  sit here.  We have   a nice rocking  chair." She 
said, "No, thanks." Then he said,  "Oh, come in, please." 
He guided her into his  store and let her  sit on a very 
soft rocking chair,  and asked, "What  is the number  of 
your car?" He got the number and tried to find her car, 
looking outside. When her driver showed  up, the owner 
kindly  escorted  her  to  get  in  her  car.  The  owner 
showed great kindness to a  strange woman beyond his 
duty. Then a few days later  came a letter saying, "I'm 
going to put millions of  dollars of furniture in my  new 
company building. And my mother strongly urges me to 
use your  furniture.  From Andrew  Carnegie."  The old 
woman was the mother  of Carnegie, the  king of steel! 
So the furniture  store owner  became a  millionaire. He 
received good luck. Just a little kindness  brought him a 
great reward.
  Likewise. we  should have  ownership  everywhere. If 
we go to the market, we  have to think of ourselves as 
its owner  and  help things   to be  arranged well.   Not 
because of   public morals,  but  we should   use public 
things with  ownership. When  we use  the rest  rooms, 
we have to make them clean.  Though the tissue is not 
ours, we should not waste it but  use a piece at a time 
as if we were  its owner. If we act with ownership, we 
can make good neighbors.
  Luke 16:10  tells us,   "Whoever can be   trusted with 
very little can also be  trusted with much, and whoever 
is dishonest with very little  will also be dishonest with 
much."
  Proverbs 28:20  says, "A  faithful man  will be  richly 
blessed,  but   one  eager   to  get   rich  will  not   go 
unpunished." Therefore, be faithful beyond  your duty. If 
we take more  effort than  we should, later  surely God 
will reward us.

  Eighth, if  we  heartily express   our thanks,  we can 
become good   neighbors. There  are many   who blame 
those who have helped them. Those who are not helped 
don't slander, but those who  are helped, rather criticize 
their helpers because they feel inferior  and try to cover 
that feeling. I've seen that  kind of people so  often and 
I've been slandered many times. Though I  helped many 
people, they blamed me, saying,  "God granted you such 
a big church  that you can  help us.  It is necessary  to 
help us." In this way,  I am blamed even after  I helped 
them. We can see that type of people often.  They can't 
be good neighbors.
  Besides, some   may ignore  those  who  have helped 
them. That kind of people  will make their helpers  very 
sorry. Yet,  others continue   to thank those   who have 
helped them. Some  of my  disciples keep  thanking me. 
Even if I  say to  them, "Please  stop doing  that," they 
make a  habit of  visiting me  and giving  some money 
every month.  They have  expressed their  thanks more 
than ten years.  I'm very  impressed by  them. For  the 
sake of those people  I'd really like to  do something. If 
you are helped.  you ought to  give deep  thanks to the 
helper, Then you can be a good neighbor.
  Psalms 50:23 says, "He who sacrifices thank offerings 
honors me,  and he   prepares the way  so  that I  may 
show him the salvation of God." When God helped us, if 
we thank him, he will be glorified.
  We read in Colossians 3:15, "Be thankful."  We should 
keep thanking for being helped and try to do  something 
in return.  Still more,   we ought to   always thank our 
parents for  their  favors and   think of repaying   them. 
Those who  do evil   to their parents   and don't thank 
them will  never  become good  neighbors.  Unless they 
honor and thank their parents, how do they show honor 
and thanks to others?

  Ninth, to  be good  neighbors,  we should  be humble 
saying, "I'm sorry. Excuse me." If we are rude, we will 
never become good neighbors. If we are haughty, all the 
people will hate and flee from us.
  In 1   Corinthians 13:4-5,  we  read,  "Love does   not 
boast, it is not proud, it is not rude, 
it is not self-seeking." That's why in just a little thing, 
we have to say, "I'm sorry. Pardon me." Why don't we 
say, "I'm sorry," to our wives? To  our wives, we have 
to say, "I'm sorry. Please, forgive me, it's my fault." To 
our husbands, we  should say  the same. Then  we can 
have good  relationships  with our   spouses. Yet,  some 
may say, "Between husbands and wives, why should we 
say,  "I'm  sorry,  forgive   me"? They   are  absolutely 
wrong. The closer we  are, the more  we ought to  say, 
"I'm sorry. Forgive me." Those words are so good. It is 
the Japanese who say, "I'm sorry," most often.
  In Japan, they always humble themselves saying, "I'm 
sorry. Pardon me."  That's why they  are considered as 
the kindest people in the  world, aren't they? Therefore, 
we have to say, "I'm sorry. Excuse me," so often. Some 
may go   by others,   saying, "Step  back!  Step  back!" 
They're  very  impolite.  Americans,  when  they  touch 
others just a  little, say,  "Excuse me,"  and when  they 
want to  go by,  they say,  "Excuse  me, please."  They 
often say, "I'm sorry. Excuse me."  Yet, we Koreans do 
not say those  words often.  At the National  Assembly, 
we can't   hear, "I'm  sorry. Pardon   me." They  argue  
and fight  with one  another. They   can't become good 
neighbors. So people say that the government party and 
the opposite  party  are very   selfish." Therefore, those 
who say,  "I'm sorry.   Excuse me," do   not get angry 
easily.
  Proverbs 16:32  says,  "Better a  patient  man than   a 
warrior, a man who  controls his temper  than one who 
takes a city." Hence, to get angry does us great harm.
  James 1:19-20  reads, "Everyone   should be quick  to 
listen, slow  to speak  and  slow to  become angry,  for 
man's anger does not bring about the righteous life that 
God desires." After we get angry, we always  feel sorry 
and seem  to be  so  stupid. Therefore,  if possible,   we 
must not become angry.

  Tenth, to have  good human  relationships, we should 
try to learn from others' good points. We should not be 
jealous of   others who   are better  than  we  are. I'm 
pastoring at a big church. Some pastors who have small 
churches don't try to learn from a big church,  but they 
would rather slander. They  blame me saying, "You  are 
very proud." Though I  am not proud, they  say that. If 
they study a big church and try to learn how to preach, 
organize and manage  church members,  it will be  very 
helpful to them. Yet, since they  find fault with me, it's 
very hard for  me to  do something  in front  of others. 
However, successful people truly respect and love others 
who are  better than  they are,   and try to  learn from 
them. We can  see those  kinds of  people often.  If we 
admire and honor those who are better than we are and 
make efforts to learn from them, we must be successful 
and become good neighbors.
  As Philippians 2:3 tells us, "Do  nothing out of selfish 
ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider others 
better   than  yourselves,"   we   should   have  humble 
attitudes to  learn from  others.  Husbands should  learn 
from their wives,  and so  should wives.  We can  learn 
even  from  our  children,  and  much  more   from our 
neighbors. Confucius said, "Where there are  three, there 
must be one of them  from whom we can learn."  If we 
always   acknowledge   others  better   than   ourselves, 
humble ourselves to learn from  them, and speak highly 
of them, we will make good relationships. We don't live 
alone away   from human   society. We   have to   help, 
support,  and   depend  on   one another.   If   not,  our 
neighbors will leave us and we will be alone, lonely and 
abandoned.

  Therefore, as  I have  told  you today,  first, consider 
others; second, do not judge others negatively;  third, do 
not take  advantage of  others; fourth,   speak highly of 
others; fifth, try  to listen to  others; sixth, make  every 
effort to help  others; seventh, work  beyond your duty; 
eighth, express your  thanks heartily;  ninth, speak with 
humble attitudes; tenth, try  to learn from others.  Then, 
you   can  become   good  neighbors   and  have   good 
relationships with  others.  As a  socialist  said, on  our 
success, our ability  and skills  have just 18%  influence 
and our  human  relationships have   82% influence.  No 
matter how good our skills and abilities are,  they affect 
our success only 18%, but our human relationships 82%. 
Hence, before God we have to reflect on ourselves  with 
humble hearts,   see if  we have   right relationships  in 
Christ  Jesus,  and  then  we  have  to  repent  and  be 
changed.
  Philippians 2:5   says, "Your   attitude should  be  the 
same as that  of Christ  Jesus." May  you always  have 
the attitude of Jesus Christ and become good neighbors!

-Prayer-
  Dear  God,   our Father   who  has   great love   and 
holiness. We  never  live alone.  We  have our   parents, 
brothers,   sisters,   husbands,    wives,   relatives   and 
neighbors. If we have good human relationships, we will 
have success, joy  and happiness.  If not,  we will have 
failure,  destruction,  sorrows  and  affliction.   God, our 
Father, please help us  cherish the attitude of  our Lord, 
Jesus Christ and have good human relationships through 
reflecting on ourselves and humbling ourselves. We pray 
in Jesus' name. Amen. 
