Sunday, Febrary 7th 1999
Title : Don't be afraid; just believe
Scriptures Reading : Lk 8:49-51

  There  are   two  kinds  of   fear:  normal   fear and 
abnormal fear. Normal fear  is necessary for  us to live. 
It motivates us to reduce spending and  save money  at 
a time of economic crisis.  It also motivates us  to wear 
warm clothes on a chilly day lest we should catch  cold. 
We also look both ways when we cross a street in fear 
of oncoming vehicles. Like this, we need  normal fear to 
sustain our  lives.  However,  there is  another kind  of 
fear which  is abnormal  and absolutely  needless. Some 
people are always filled with fear of becoming incurably 
sick or having cancer  without a cause.  Some fear that 
they will  go bankrupt  or face   misfortune. Some even 
fear that they will be  forsaken by people. These people 
fear without any cause. Such fear is destructive. 1  John 
4:18 says, "There  is no  fear in  love. But  perfect love 
drives   out   fear,   because  fear   has   to   do   with 
punishment." This means  that abnormal fear  will bring 
bad results and its own punishment.

  First, let  us think  of people  who feared  in the  Old 
Testament. The most  dramatic example is  that of Job. 
Job was a blameless and upright man. Job 1:1 says,  "In 
the land of Uz there lived a man whose  name was Job. 
This man  was blameless   and upright; he  feared  God 
and shunned evil."  We can see  that he would  make a 
first  degree  Christian   these days.   Job  was  greatly 
blessed by God with his possessions.

  Job  1:2-3  says,   "He had   seven  sons   and three 
daughters, and  he owned  seven thousand  sheep, three 
thousand camels,  five hundred  yoke of   oxen and five 
hundred donkeys, and  had a large  number of servants. 
He was the  greatest man among  all the people  of the 
East." He   was a  very  wealthy  man  in those   days.  
However, a  disaster  came upon  him.  He lost   all his 
children and all his  possessions in a twinkle  of an eye 
one day and he had  sores all over his body.   Why did 
these things happen? We know  that, in the background 
of Job's  tragedy, the  devil falsely  accused Job  before 
God and brought disasters to him.  
Then, why did the devil accuse Job  and bring disasters 
to him? There was Job's confession of fear.

  He said in Job 3:25-26, "What I feared has come upon 
me; what  I dreaded   has happened to  me.  I have  no 
peace, no quietness;  I have  no rest, but  only turmoil." 
Although  Job   lived in   God's   enormous grace   and 
blessings, he had a secret fear. He feared something bad 
might take place  without any  reason. He was  stricken 
by  the   fear that   he  might   lose his   children,  his 
possessions and  health. This   fear did not   come from 
God. The  devil planted  this  fear in  the heart  of  Job 
before bringing disasters to Job.  The devil first planted 
fear in Job's heart. When Job was stricken by that fear 
and when he became intimidated and negative, the  devil 
accused him before God. Therefore, we can see that fear 
brings punishment that can destroy us.  

  The Israelites came out of Egypt and reached  Kadesh 
Barnea. They  sent twelve  men to  explore Canaan  for 
forty days  and forty  nights. Ten  of them   were filled 
with fear.  They  looked, heard   and explored  the land 
with fear. As the result,  they fell into the  snare of the 
devil.  

  Deuteronomy 1:28 says the following.  "Where can we 
go? Our brothers  have made  us lose heart.  They say, 
'The people  are stronger  and taller  than  we are;  the 
cities are large, with walls up to the sky. We even saw 
the Anakites there.'"  Then I  said to  you, "Do  not be 
terrified; do  not be  afraid of  them.  The  LORD your 
God, who is going before you, will  fight for you, as he 
did for you in Egypt, before your very  eyes, and in the 
desert. There you saw how the LORD your God carried 
you, as a father  carries his son, all  the way you went 
until you reached  this place." In  spite of  this, you did 
not trust in  the LORD  your God,  who went ahead  of 
you on your journey, in fire by night and in a cloud  by 
day, to search out places for you  to camp and to show 
you the way you should go."  

  This  was  the   last sermon   of  Moses  before  the 
Israelites. They lost their hearts at the report of the ten 
negative  spies   and  feared.   As  aresult,   they  were 
destroyed in  the desert.  What they  feared came  upon 
them; what they dreaded happened to  them. They could 
not enter Canaan but had to  die in the desert.  On  the 
other hand, look at valiant Joshua  and Caleb. They had 
no fear.  Numbers 14:9 says, "Only do not rebel against 
the LORD. And  do not  be afraid of  the people  of the 
land, because we will swallow them up. Their protection 
is gone, but the LORD  is with us. Do not  be afraid of 
them." Listen to  their words: "Do  not fear.  Do not be 
afraid. God is  with us. Why  should we  be afraid? Do 
not fear." Joshua  and Caleb  had absolute faith  in God 
and rejected fear. We must know  that fear is the work 
of the  devil who  wants to  steal, kill  and destroy  us. 
The devil plants fear  in our hearts and  thus makes us 
be negative, afraid and faithless. Then he will accuse us 
before God. What we fear may come upon us; what  we 
dread may happen to us.  Therefore, we must know the 
evil scheme of the devil and act against them.

  Second, let us think of people  in the New Testament. 
The daughter of Jairus, the synagogue ruler, died.

  Jairus loved his daughter  more than anything  else in 
the world. He was deeply devastated by  her illness and 
came to Jesus. Since Jesus was  denounced as a heretic 
by the Jews, Jairus' coming to Jesus was like giving up 
everything.  He   might have  been excommunicated   if 
people had found out that he came to Jesus and pleaded 
with Him. He  would be  severely blamed. However,  he 
didn't care for his position  or authority at the death  of 
his daughter.

  There was a huge  crowd around Jesus  but he came 
and fell at  Jesus' feet,  pleading with Him  to come  to 
his house  because his  only daughter  was dying.   As 
Jesus was on His  way, someone came  from the house 
of Jairus, wept aloud, and said, "Your  daughter is dead. 
Don't bother the teacher any more." Jairus felt as if his 
heart stopped at this word. He  lost all his strength. He 
became blank.  However,  Jesus said to  him "Don't  be 
afraid; just  believe, and   she will be  healed."  What a 
wonderful  proclamation!  Jesus   was saying   that  his 
daughter would come  back to  life only  if he  believed. 
He also meant that she would die if he feared and gave 
up faith. When  we believe  without being  afraid, Jesus 
will walk with us.  

  On the other hand,  if we fear and  give up faith, the 
devil will   possess us.  It  is as   simple as  that.  The 
opposite word of faith  is fear. Fear  brings punishment.  
Fear is   the instrument   of the   devil.  Faith  is  the 
instrument of God.  God says, "Nothing is impossible to 
those who   believe. It  will  be done   as you  believe."   
Therefore, faith  is extremely   important.  Faith comes 
from hearing  the message,  and the   message is heard 
through the word of Christ. Jairus heard Jesus and  held 
on to his faith. Jesus went to Jairus' house and  entered 
the room with Peter and  John. He took the girl  by the 
hand and raised her. He performed a miracle. Jesus uses 
our faith to perform miracles.  

  Matthew 14:25-33  speaks of  Peter's walking  on the 
water and   then sinking  when  he feared.   During the 
fourth  watch  of  the  night   Jesus went   out to   the 
disciples,  walking  on   the lake.   The  disciples   were 
working hard in the  storm to balance the  boat.  When 
they saw Him walking on  the lake, they were terrified. 
"It's a  ghost,"  they said,  and  cried out  in  fear. But 
Jesus immediately said to them:  "Take courage! It is  I. 
Don't be afraid." Peter replied, "Lord, if it's you, tell me 
to  come  to  you   on the   water."   It  was  a   bold 
proclamation of  faith.  Jesus   said, "Come." Peter  had 
faith so he  got down  out of  the boat,  walked on  the 
water and came toward Jesus. It was a miracle. Acts of 
faith bring  miracles. When  he  acted on  faith without 
fearing the storms around him,  the Lord was with  him 
and a miracle took place.  Then a wave arose  high and 
hit his  face. When  he  saw the  wind, he  was  afraid. 
Instead of looking at  Jesus, he looked at  the wind and 
waves and, thus, began to sink.  

  Faith and  confidence used  to connect  him to  Jesus. 
When he lost faith, however, the power of God departed 
from him.   Then the  power of   death and  destruction 
pulled him down below the water. Sinking  meant death. 
Walking on the water meant life. Faith let him  walk on 
the water but fear pushed him down. When the  Lord is 
with us, we can walk on the water of life but, when we 
lose faith in  Him, we  will sink.  As long  as we  have 
faith in Jesus,  we can walk  on the  water of the  IMF 
crisis. However, if we give  up faith and become  afraid, 
we will sink. To believe or not to believe is a matter of 
life. To   walk on  the  water  or  to sink   depends on 
whether we have faith or fear.

  Think about   the disciples  of  Jesus.  They followed 
Jesus for   three and   a half   years, watching  all  the 
miracles that He performed.  However, when Jesus  was 
arrested by the Jews and  the Roman soldiers, they  ran 
away from   Him because  of fear.   When fear  entered 
their hearts, they  lost faith and  loyalty and  ran away.  
Fear makes us betray the Lord.  Although one seems to 
have strong faith  and to  pray hard,  when fear  enters 
one's heart, one is likely  to betray and run  away from 
the Lord as the  disciples did. Fear is  an instrument of 
the devil.

  Third, what should we do to overcome fear? Fear will 
come to us. As there  always is darkness, there is  fear. 
However, some  overcome fear   but others become   the 
slaves of fear, being punished and destroyed. Unless we 
believe the omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent God, 
we cannot overcome fear.

  We are afraid because we have little power. However, 
when we know that  God, who is  bigger than anybody 
or any fear, is with us, we  are not afraid. When I was 
an   elementary   school  student,   I   lived   with   my 
grandparents in the country after  my parents moved to 
Pusan city.  My grandmother was a weak lady. I had to 
go through the  rice field  and mountain  side to  school 
and there was  a cemetery.  It was  dreadful. I used  to 
study at school until late and walked home from school. 
Since I  was not  a  Christian without  knowing God,  I 
used to be swept  over by fear  everyday. Although my 
grandmother was weak, she would come up the hill and 
call me in  a loud  voice, "Yonggi,  is that  you?"  Her 
voice would  stir up   joy and courage   in my heart.   I 
would   gain   "yonggi(meaning  courage   in   Korean)" 
because I thought foxes  or wolves would flee  from me 
since grandma was there with me.  When we know and 
trust God, who created heaven and earth and everything 
in them, fear will flee from us in seven directions.

  Matthew 10:28-31  says, "Do  not be   afraid of those 
who kill the  body but  cannot kill the  soul. Rather,  be 
afraid of the One  who can destroy both  soul and body 
in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? Yet not 
one of them will fall  to the ground apart from  the will 
of your Father. And  even the very  hairs of your  head 
are all  numbered. So  don't  be afraid;  you are   worth 
more  than  many   sparrows." If   God  takes  care  of 
sparrows, why   shouldn't He   take care   of us?   God 
commands, "Don't be  afraid; you are  worth more than 
many sparrows."  When we know God and when God's 
love is manifested  in us through  Jesus Christ, we  can 
have peace. Since God so loved the world and gave His 
only  Son.  To  receive  Jesus  Christ  means  receiving 
God's love. We receive  His love toward  us. When His 
love overflows from our hearts, fear will disappear.

  1 John   4:18 says,  "There is   no fear  in love.   But 
perfect love drives out fear, because fear has to do with 
punishment. The one who  fears is not  made perfect in 
love." When the  love of God  fills us, it  will drive out 
fear. When we receive God's  love in Jesus Christ,  fear 
will be  driven  out.  Fear   brings punishment  that is 
related to itself.  Therefore, we  must trust  the love  of 
God in Christ and be freed from fear.  

  Listen  to  Romans   8:33-39: "Who   will  bring  any 
charge against those whom  God has chosen? It  is God 
who justifies. Who  is he that  condemns? Christ  Jesus, 
who died--more than that, who was raised to life--is at 
the right hand  of God  and is  also interceding  for us. 
Who shall separate  us from  the love  of Christ?  Shall 
trouble   or  hardship   or   persecution  or   famine  or 
nakedness or danger  or sword?  As it is  written: "For 
your sake we face death all day long; we are considered 
as sheep to be slaughtered."  No, in all these things  we 
are more than  conquerors through  Him who  loved us. 
For I am  convinced that neither  death nor life,  neither 
angels nor demons,  neither the  present nor  the future, 
nor any powers, neither  height nor depth,  nor anything 
else in all creation, will be able to separate  us from the 
love of  God that   is in Christ  Jesus  our Lord."  This 
means that there is  no power in  the universe that can 
separate us from the love of God.  

  Once we accept and love  Jesus, nothing can separate 
us from His love. We can't find the love of God outside 
of Jesus. In  Christ, however, indescribable  love of God 
keeps us. When we communicate  with God through the 
word and   our prayers,  fear  will be   driven out,  too. 
When we read the word  and pray to God  all the time, 
we have fellowship with God and we can be confident.  
  Joshua 1:5-9 says, "No  one will be  able to stand up 
against you all  the days  of your  life. As  I was  with 
Moses, so I will be with you; I will never leave you nor 
forsake you. Be strong and courageous, because you will 
lead these  people to  inherit the  land I  swore to  their 
forefathers   to   give   them.   Be   strong   and   very 
courageous. Be careful to  obey all the  law my servant 
Moses gave you; do not turn from  it to the right or to 
the left, that  you may be  successful wherever you  go. 
Do not   let this  Book of   the Law  depart from   your 
mouth; meditate on it  day and night,  so that you  may 
be careful to do everything written in  it. Then you will 
be prosperous  and successful.  Have I   not commanded 
you? Be strong and courageous.  Do not be terrified; do 
not be  discouraged, for   the LORD your   God will be 
with you wherever you go."  

  Listen to  this. When  we  read and  meditate on  the 
word and when we  have fellowship with  God, we will 
know that God is with us. Then we  will be strong and 
courageous.  When  we  march  on  with  faith  without 
fearing, God will make us prosper  in everything we do. 
To remove fear  from our  hearts, we need  to be  filled 
with the Holy Spirit.   Zechariah 4:6 says,  "This is the 
word of the LORD to Zerubbabel: `Not by might nor by 
power, but by my Spirit,' says the LORD Almighty."  

  Acts 1:8 also says, "But you will receive power  when 
the Holy   Spirit comes  on you."   Therefore, we  must 
acknowledge, welcome  and trust  the  Spirit. The  Holy 
Spirit is always with us to comfort  us, to free us from 
fear, to give strong  and courageous hearts  and to help 
us.  The  Spirit  is  right  here.  Say,  "Amen,"  if  you 
acknowledge the  Spirit. Say,  "Amen,"  if you  welcome 
the Spirit. Say,  "Amen," if  you accept  the Spirit.  The 
Spirit is our Comforter. He comforts and strengthens us, 
removing fears from our  hearts. To overcome  fear, we 
must have positive  attitudes.  We must  trust God and 
be confident.  

  There is a western parable. A farmer was riding on a 
horse cart. As he was entering  Constantinople, someone 
hopped  on  his  horse  cart.  He  looked  and  found  a 
hideous witch. He said, "Why did you hop on my cart?" 
She replied, "I am a witch  that pestilence brings. I will 
enter the city and take four lives." He asked,  "How can 
I believe that you  will take only four  lives?" She gave 
him a knife, saying, "What I said  is true. If I kill more 
than four,  come to   me and kill  me  with this  knife." 
They entered the city and the witch jumped  down from 
the cart.  Not  long after  that there  was pestilence  in 
Constantinople and hundreds of people  died. The farmer 
became furious  and searched  for the   witch. When he 
found her,  he said,  "You said  you were  going to  kill 
only four.  Since hundreds of people died, I will kill you 
with this knife." Then she said, "I killed only four.  The 
others died out of fear."

  During  the  Second  World   War, 300,000   American 
soldiers died   in combat  against  Germany and   Japan. 
However, about million people died of heart attacks from 
fear and worries  after sending  their children  to battle. 
We can   see how  destructive  fear can   be. A  recent 
medical report declares that people who have fear are at 
a higher risk  of heart attacks  or strokes because  their 
hearts grow weak from  fear. Therefore, we  must trust 
God and be strong and courageous.

  Hebrews 13:5-6  says, "God  has  said, 'Never  will I 
leave you; never  will I  forsake you.' So  we say  with 
confidence, 'The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid. 
What can  man  do to   me?'" Hebrews  10:37-38 says, 
"For in just a very  little while, He who is  coming will 
come and will not delay. But my righteous one will live 
by faith. And if  he shrinks back, I  will not be pleased 
with him."   We should  never shrink  back but  march 
forth strongly and courageously. Fear is the work of the 
devil that  weakens  our hearts.  It  will steal,   kill and 
destroy us. We must trust the grace of the cross of our 
Lord. Be  strong  and courageous.   Drive fear  out and 
have faith in the  Lord. Then the Lord  will be with us 
and bless us in spirit and in body and in circumstances. 
He will give His abundant life to us. Fear, big or small, 
may attack us but we  should never let it  stay because 
it will bring punishments.
