Sunday, December 26th, 1999
Title : Obstacles That Block Love
Scripture Reading: 1 Corinthians 13:13

  The Bible says, "God is  love." Therefore, where there 
is love, there is God. Though we say we believe in God 
but if we have envy, jealousy  and hatred in our hearts, 
our faith is false and God  is not with us. To our  grief, 
today  some  Christians   attend the   powerful  worship 
services at   the great  church,  but  have only   religion 
without love, so there is no God in them.
  We read in  1John 3:13-19, "Do  not be surprised,  my 
brothers, if the world hates you. We know that we have 
passed from death to life, because we love  our brothers. 
Anyone who  does not  love  remains in  death. Anyone 
who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that 
no murderer  has eternal  life in  him. This  is how  we 
know what love  is: Jesus Christ  laid down his  life for 
us.  And  we  ought  to  lay  down  our  lives  for  our 
brothers. If anyone has material possessions and sees his 
brother in need  but has  no pity on  him, how  can the 
love of God be in him? 
  Dear children, let  us not  love with  words or tongue 
but with  actions and   in truth. This  then  is how  we 
know that we belong to the  truth, and how we set  our 
hearts at   rest in  his  presence."  Then  what are   the 
obstacles that block love?

  First, if we have a measure of legalism  in our hearts, 
it blocks love. God  in the Old  Testament was the God 
of wrath and  judgment. When  the Israelites  arrived at 
Mount Sinai,   God covered   the whole   mountain with 
smoke and called in Moses among fire and gave him the 
law  through  which  He   made a   covenant  with  the 
Israelites.   However,   the    law   condemned,   judged, 
destroyed and killed  people. Since  man was  weak and 
did not observe the law of God, His attitude toward man 
was always wrath and  judgment. The Israelites entered 
Canaan but they committed sins against the law so they 
were punished and destroyed.
  Ezekiel 39:23-24 says, "And the nations will know that 
the people of Israel went into exile for their sin, because 
they were unfaithful to me. So I hid my face from them 
and handed them over to their enemies, and they all  fell 
by the   sword. I  dealt  with  them according   to their 
uncleanness and their offenses,  and I hid my  face from 
them." Likewise,  as long  as there  was the  law, there 
was always   the wrath,  judgment  and  punishment  of 
God. For  the law  points out  our weakness,  condemns, 
judges, and kills us.  No law no sin.  By the law  sin is 
revealed. That's why no  man is called righteous  before 
the law. Therefore, in  the Old Testament,  the Israelites 
made a   covenant with  God, so   He was  the God   of 
wrath who   condemned and  judged them.   Yet, in  the 
New Testament,  God became   the God of   compassion, 
mercy and forgiveness. For Jesus  paid on the cross  for 
all the sins that man committed under the law.
  Romans 3:23-24 reads,  "For all  have sinned  and fall 
short of the glory of God, and are justified freely by his 
grace  through  the   redemption that   came  by  Christ 
Jesus." We did not become righteous  by our works, but 
we were forgiven  by the  blood of  Jesus Christ.  Since 
we have  no sin   to be judged   now, we are   justified. 
Jesus completed the law of God and destroyed  it on the 
cross.
  Colossians 2:14  states, "Having   canceled the written 
code, with its regulations, that  was against us and  that 
stood opposed to us;  he took it  away, nailing it  to the 
cross." So now since  God looks at us  without the law, 
He accepts   us only  with  love  without condemnation, 
judgment and punishment. Without the law He can't see 
our  iniquities,  condemn,   nor judge   us.  Since   Jesus 
accomplished the law and  nailed it on the  cross, in the 
New Testament   we are   not related   to God  by  the 
covenant through the law but we are forgiven, righteous 
and loved by Him through Jesus Christ.
  Galatians 4:4-7 says, "When the  time had fully come, 
God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, 
to redeem those  under the  law, that we  might receive 
the full rights of sons.  Because you are sons, God  sent 
the Spirit  of his  Son  into our  hearts, the  Spirit  who 
calls out, 'Abba, Father.' So you  are no longer a slave, 
but a son; and since you are  a son, God has made you 
also an   heir." Now  we  are no   longer punished,  but 
forgiven and loved as His sons and His heirs. Therefore, 
the obstacle that  blocks our love is the  measure of the 
law in our hearts. As  long as the law is  in our hearts, 
we are  to point  out sins,  condemn, judge,  and to  kill 
others. If we  remove the  measure of the  law, we  can 
love others as  they are.  If we see  our neighbors  with 
the law, we only find fault, criticize, blame, and condemn 
without love.
  Matthew 7:2-3  tells us,  "For in  the same   way you 
judge others, you will be  judged, and with the  measure 
you use, it will be measured  to you. 'Why do you  look 
at the speck of  sawdust in your brother's  eye and pay 
no attention to the plank  in your own eye?'" If  we see 
others with the law, they will also see us  with it. Then 
we will criticize, blame, judge one another and there will 
be no love.  Yet, since  the Lord nailed  the law  on the 
cross, we have to  nail on the  cross the law  that is in 
our hearts. If we see our family, neighbors and relatives 
without the  law of  criticism, we  will be  able to  love 
them with   pure hearts.   If we  forgive  and  love  our 
neighbors as   they are,  love will   bring forth  a great 
change. Love is the greatest law in this universe.
  Colossians 3:13-14  says, "Bear   with each other  and 
forgive whatever grievances  you may have  against one 
another. Forgive as the Lord  forgave you. And over  all 
these virtues put on love, which binds them  all together 
in perfect unity."  That's why  if we see  our neighbors 
without the law, we  can love them. Yet,  if we see our 
neighbors with   the law,  we  will judge   them saying, 
"You are wrong. It's  your fault. You are  evil." We are 
not able to  both blame  and love them.  If we  have no 
law, we  will be  able to  love others  saying, "You  are 
good. You  are nice.   I love you."   Therefore, The law 
should  be  eliminated  between  married   couples. If   a 
husband blames   his wife  with the   law saying,  "You 
don't do this and that,"  love will disappear. And also  if 
a wife criticizes her husband with the  law saying, "You 
are foolish. You have no  ability. You don't earn lots  of 
money," love will  not be with  her. If  there is no  law, 
there will be  no criticism and  judgment. Then  we can 
love  and  forgive  others.  This  is   why between   the 
couples and between parents and  children they can love 
without the law. Between neighbors we can love without 
the law but  with it  we will  always find  fault, blame, 
judge one another  and finally  we will never  love. The 
measure of the law  is a grave obstacle  that blocks the 
love.

  Second, if we don't forgive  our past, love can't enter 
into our hearts. If God doesn't forgive  our sins that we 
committed and He remembers them, He won't be able to 
love  us.  We   did terrible   sins,  didn't  we?   If God 
remembers them  all, He  will never  love us.  However, 
when He forgives us with the blood of Jesus Christ,  He 
forgets  all  our   sins. He   says  that  He   will never 
remember our sins.
  Micah 7:19 says, "You will again  have compassion on 
us; you will  tread our  sins underfoot  and hurl all  our 
iniquities into  depths  of the   sea." Psalms 103:12   also 
says, "As far as  the east is from  the west, so far  has 
he removed  our transgressions  from us."  God forgives 
and forgets. The blood of Jesus cleanses our past whiter 
than snow.    Isaiah 43:25 reads, "I, even I, am he  who 
blots out  your  transgressions, for  my  own sake,   and 
remembers your sins no more."
  Revelation 7:14 also  reads, "They  have washed  their 
robes and made them white  in the blood of  the Lamb." 
No matter how many  sins we have,  if we are  washed 
white, all our  sins are  forgotten. Therefore,  when God 
accepts us  through Jesus  Christ, He  forgives our  sins 
and forgets them.  The Devil  attempts to  pick out  our 
sins but God forgets  our sins when  we repent and  He 
will no   longer remember  them.  This is   why if  you 
remember the sins  of which  you repented,  that is  not 
the work   of God   but of   Satan. Since   God doesn't 
remember our transgressions,  He can  continue to  pour 
His love upon us abundantly. If we confess our sins, He 
will forgive and wash us  and remember them no  more, 
so He  is able  to give  us endless  love. Therefore,  we 
have to make  a decision  to forgive our  neighbors. We 
should first forgive ourselves.  We should not  remember 
the wrong deeds that we did in the past but forget them 
all.
  When I did the  ministry in Seodaemun,  a sister was 
seriously sick.  She  was extremely   depressed and  she 
couldn't feed   her baby.  She  had  three children.   Her 
husband brought her to my office and in tears asked me 
to save her. He told me that he took  her to doctors but 
they said she was  not sick. He was  very sad that she 
was terribly depressed.  I told  him to  please leave  my 
office and asked his wife, "Sister, you're in despondency, 
because you don't forgive your sin.  What sin don't you 
forgive?" Then she asked,  "Am I in  the police station? 
Are  you  a   policeman?" I   answered,  "I   am not   a 
policeman nor a detective. But you are so depressed that 
you can't feed  your baby,  take care  of your  husband, 
nor keep  your house,  because  you don't  forgive your 
sin. You committed a sin and you don't forgive yourself. 
Unless you forgive, you and  your children will die,  and 
your husband will perish. Right now you have to forgive 
yourself. Please, confess your sin to the Lord." Then she 
shook her head and said, "God won't  forgive my sin." I 
asked, "How  terrible is   your sin?" She  told  me with 
weeping, "I lost  my parents in  my childhood and  lived 
with my older  sister who  loved me so  much that  she 
helped me enter the  college. Afterward while  my sister 
was in the  hospital to have  her baby, I  committed sin 
with  her  husband.  After  my  sister  got  out  of  the 
hospital I often slept with her husband  in the inn. As a 
result, I was seriously troubled in my heart.
  As soon as I got a job after finishing college, to avoid 
the sinful   life I   got married  to  the  first  man  who 
proposed to me. However, he was very nice and we had 
a good house and three children.  Yet, I felt guilty more 
and more so  I was  in serious  melancholy, thinking,  'I 
don't deserve   to be   loved by  my  husband  and my 
children.  I'm   very bad.   I'd  better   die.'" She   was 
overwhelmed by  condemnation. Then  she  said, "I  will 
never be forgiven.  Neither will  God forgive  me." So  I 
told her,   "Sister, let  us imagine   that you  and I   are 
sitting at the lake,  where we are throwing  stones. You 
have a big stone and I have a small one. If I throw  my 
stone, what will happen? It  will make a soft sound  and 
sink in the lake. What about your stone? It will  make a 
big  sound  and  sink  in  the  lake,  too.  What  is  the 
difference? Only  the sound  is different.  A small  stone 
makes a   soft sound   and a  big  stone  a  big  sound. 
However, both of them sink. Due  to both a big sin and 
a small sin, we have  to go to hell. You  and I must go 
to hell  regardless of   a big or   a little sin  unless  we 
believe in Jesus. Therefore, the Lord  forgives a big and 
a little  sin. Please   cast your sin  unto  Him." At  that 
word she was touched  and knelt down  and cried aloud 
saying, "Lord,  please  forgive me   my sin, my   terrible 
sin." She was forgiven by the blood of the Lord and she 
could forgive herself. She thanked God, leaping with joy. 
I opened the door and let her husband in.  Then she ran 
to him and hugged him and  cried. He was so surprised 
and asked, "What happened to her? She has never acted 
like this   since I  married her."   I told  him, "She   has 
changed now. Please  take her  home." After  then, they 
kept attending our church heartily.
  We should forgive ourselves.  If we don't  forgive but 
condemn ourselves, we can't love others. We should also 
forgive  our   parents. Most   children  have   complaints 
against their parents. How do parents love and take care 
of their   children equally?   That's why   children have 
complaints against their parents. In the same way, when 
they become parents, their children  will have complaints 
against them,  too. Therefore,   we have to   forgive our 
parents. We should  forgive and  forget their faults.  We 
should forgive our brothers and  sisters. We quarrel and 
fight with   them. We  should  not remember   that. We 
should decide to forgive  them and do.  Needless to say, 
we should forgive our spouses and our neighbors.
  Mark 11:25 says, "And when you stand praying, if you 
hold anything against anyone, forgive  him, so that your 
Father in heaven may forgive  you your sins." After  all, 
we should repent of our  complaints against God. People 
complain against God saying, "Why does God do  this to 
me? He is too  harsh. He may  forsake me." We  should 
repent of this sin. Unless we forgive, we can't  be loved 
and love others. That's  why you and I  should strongly 
make up our minds to forgive. May you forgive with the 
blood of Jesus Christ.

  Third, we can love  when we reject the  accusation of 
the Devil.  For He  comes and  accuses  us so  that we 
can't love others.  He tells  us, "You  are abandoned by 
God. You  are  not worthy   to love  and to   be loved." 
When I  was  pastoring in   Seodaemun, a woman   who 
graduated from  a university  took an  overdose of   pills 
and was in the Red Cross Hospital, where the drug was 
washed away and she  was  supplied with oxygen.  She 
said, "I committed too many sins  to be loved by God. I 
deserve to go to hell, so I decided to die." I told her, "If 
you say that  you committed sins  so that you  can't be 
loved by God, it  is said by  the Devil but  not by God. 
God so loved the world that He gave His only Son, who 
so loved   you that  He forgave   all your  sins through 
shedding His blood. Then why does He condemn you for 
your sin? Jesus forgave and loved you so that  you may 
deserve to be loved. If we think that you can't be loved, 
it is  the work  of the  Devil.  You must  drive out  the 
Devil who always  condemns, accuses,  and judges. You 
are accused by  the Devil. Then  she expelled  the Devil 
and felt peace and was able to love her  neighbor. Thus, 
if we think, "I  am forsaken by God.  I'm not  worthy," 
you are being accused  by the Devil.  God so loved  you 
that  He  gave  His  one  and  only  Son.  This  is  the 
testimony, isn't it? Besides,  the Devil comes  to us and 
says, "You are too sinful to be loved and  to love." Who 
is not sinful  in this  world? Jesus said,  "The one  who 
has never sinned may  stone the adulteress," didn't  He? 
As it is written,  "For all have  sinned and fall short  of 
the glory   of God."  Therefore, once   God forgives  our 
sins, He   no longer  mentions  them.  Yet, since   Satan 
points out our sins  repeatedly to condemn us,  we must 
resist Him. The Devil comes  and tells us, "Though you 
do good to your neighbors, they will laugh at you. They 
will disregard and mock you. You don't deserve to be a 
man." Although our neighbor  mocks or laughs at  us, if 
we believe  that  God loves   us, we'll  be able   to live 
boldly. We don't depend on our neighbor but  on God. If 
God forgives, justifies and  loves us, we can  be content 
with  that  and love  our neighbor  with His  love. The 
Devil   comes  and   tells  us,   "Love  is   useless  and 
unprofitable." Yet, you must not listen to Him. Only love 
can change  us and   bring us happiness   and joy. The 
word saying, "Love is useless and unprofitable," is 
false. Criticism and judgment with the law in this world 
always   bring   about   strife   but    love   brings   us 
reconciliation, forgiveness and union.
  We read  in 1Peter  4:7-8, "The  end of  all things  is 
near. Therefore, be  clear minded  and self-controlled  so 
that you  can pray.  Above all,  love each  other deeply, 
because love covers over a multitude of sins." Hence, we 
must strictly resist  the accusation of  the Devil so  that 
He can't  attack us  with negative  thoughts and  words 
and that love can work in us. Then we can love and be 
loved. Thus,  we should  know what  the Devil  does is 
false.
  Revelation 12:10-11 states, "Then I heard a loud  voice 
in heaven say:  'Now have  come the salvation  and the 
power and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of 
his Christ. For the accuser of our brothers, who accuses 
them before  our God  day and   night, has been  hurled 
down. They  overcame him  by the  blood of  the Lamb 
and by the  word of their  testimony; they  did not love 
their lives so  much as  to shrink from  death.'" As  the 
Devil was overcome by  the blood of  the Lamb and  by 
the word of their testimony, if the Devil accuses you, in 
the blood and name of Jesus Christ, you must  command 
the Devil to leave you. You should say, "I command you 
relying upon  the name  and the  blood of  Jesus Christ, 
'Go back.'" Though  the Devil  come in one  way, He'll 
flee in seven.

  Fourth, in order  for us  to love and  to be  loved, we 
should not  underestimate the  work of  the Holy  Spirit. 
For He comes and pours God's love upon us.
  Romans 5:3-5 says, "Not only  so, but we also rejoice 
in  our  sufferings,   because we   know  that  suffering 
produces   perseverance;  perseverance,   character;   and 
character,  hope.   And hope   does  not   disappoint us, 
because God has poured out his love  into our hearts by 
the Holy Spirit,  whom he  has given  us." The  love of 
God has been poured out upon us by the Holy Spirit, so 
with His love we  can love ourselves  and our neighbor. 
The Holy Spirit is  called the Comforter,  isn't He? The 
Comforter was sent by God  and is with us  to help us. 
Therefore, we should  ask Him, "Comforter,  please pour 
the love of God upon my heart  so that I may live with 
His love." Then He will pour love upon our hearts. Now 
let us see  Stephen. Even  under the  pile of  stones, he 
asked God  to bless  his enemies.  He did  not hate  nor 
condemn the enemies. Since he was filled with the  Holy 
Spirit, He poured  God's love upon  his heart. Please  do 
not say that you are unable to love. You should not say, 
"I can't love. I don't love others."  Since the Holy Spirit 
is the Spirit of God and of Jesus and  fills us with love, 
we can't love on our own  but He can through us. Paul 
said,  "I  can  do   everything in   him  who  gives  me 
strength." If the  Spirit of  God strengthens  us, we can 
love.
  Ezekiel 36:26 reads, "I will  give you a new heart  and 
put a new  spirit in you;  I will remove  from you  your 
heart of stone  and give  you a  heart of  flesh." If God 
asks the Holy Spirit, He will remove our hearts of stone 
and give us a  heart of flesh so  that we may  love and 
forgive one another. Heaven becomes heaven,  because it 
is filled  with love.  Hell is  hell, not  because of  a bad 
circumstance but because it is filled with hatred. 
No matter how good  our houses, clothes and  food may 
be, if   our households  are  filled with   hatred and  we 
argue and  rebuke each  other, we  dwell in  hell. While 
living  on earth, we  may live in  heaven or hell. If  we 
overflow with love and joy, heaven is in our hearts. Yet, 
if we are filled with envy  and jealousy, our hearts may 
be like hell  only with  sorrow and  troubles. You  don't 
have to wait  for heaven or  hell in  the future, for  you 
can overflow with love through  Jesus Christ and where 
there is love, there is joy. And if you have love and joy, 
you already  have heaven  in your  hearts. Yet,  if  your 
hearts are filled  with envy,  rage and hatred,  you have 
sorrow, trials  and  troubles and  hell  is already  within 
you.  That's  why   the Lord   says,  "Repent,   for the 
kingdom of   heaven is   near. You   will not   say that 
heaven is here or there, for it is in your hearts."
  We have  to live  with love,  the greatest  law in  the 
world. That  is the  greatest law.  In order  to love,  we 
should remove the  measure of law,  forgive the sins  of 
ourselves and of our  neighbors and forget them.  In the 
name and the blood of Jesus Christ, we should expel the 
Devil who accuses us  and our neighbors  with negative 
thoughts. We should depend on  the Comforter, the Holy 
Spirit of God  every moment and  earnestly ask  Him to 
pour God's love upon our hearts.
   The Bible says, "These three remain:  faith, hope and 
love. But  the greatest  of these  is  love." God  is love. 
Where there is love, there is  God. Although we say we 
believe in Jesus, without love  we just have religion but 
no God in us. For God is love. That's why  where there 
is love, there is God, and where there is hatred, there is 
the Devil. Since you received God's love and forgiveness 
in Christ  Jesus, may  you,  with the  help of  the  Holy 
Spirit, remove the measure of law, forgive, forget all the 
iniquities and love one another. 


-Prayer-
  Dear God, our Father of love and holiness.  When You 
looked at   the Israelites   with the   law, You   rebuked, 
criticized, condemned  and judged  them  as the  God of 
wrath.  However,  since  Jesus  Christ  bore  the  cross, 
accomplished the  law and  removed  it, You  don't find 
fault, blame and  judge us but  accept us  with love. So 
now we receive Your everlasting  love. Our Father God! 
You are the God of  love but not of  wrath, for the law 
was destroyed. Please help  us remove the  law between 
parents and  children, between  couples, between  friends 
and between neighbors, and  treat each other  with love. 
We   thank  You   for   forgiving   our  sins   and   for 
remembering   them  no   more.   Please  help   us   not 
remember our sins over  again. Holy Spirit, please  come 
and resist  the  Devil and  let  us overflow  with  God's 
love. We acknowledge the  Holy Spirit, welcome,  accept, 
and depend  on Him.   Please work in  us.  We pray  in 
Jesus' name. Amen.  


