Sermon, May 9th 1999
How to Be a Happy Family
Scripture Reading : Ephesians 5:22-6:4


  The first home  of man  was made  by God  in Eden. 
God was the Father and  Adam and Eve made a  family 
in Eden. Yet, their  happiness didn't last  long. Tempted 
by the devil, they disobeyed  God and turned from Him. 
Adam hated Eve and  Eve resented the serpent.  Finally, 
they were driven out  of Eden. The family  without God 
had discord:  the older  brother, Cain,  stoned and  killed 
his younger brother,  Abel. Likewise, man's  first family 
was not  happy. In  order  to have  a happy   home, we 
have to learn  many lessons  from the  failed  home  of 
Adam and Eve.

  First, the absolute condition for  a happy home lies  in 
fully accepting and serving the sovereign God. The Bible 
says in   Psalm 127:1-2,   "Unless the  Lord  builds  the 
house,  its  builders   labor in   vain.  Unless  the  Lord 
watches over  the  city, the  watchmen  stand guard   in 
vain, and stay up  late, toiling for food  to eat." Without 
God, it is in vain  to build a house, to  stand guard and 
to toil. That's  why to have  a happy  home, we should 
first seek His kingdom and His  righteousness. We have 
to live on God's basis in our home so the righteousness 
of Christ  may be  revealed  in the  lives of  our  whole 
family.
  Deuteronomy 28:2-6   says, "All  these  blessings  will 
come upon  you and   accompany you if   you obey the 
Lord your  God: You   will be blessed  in  the city  and 
blessed in the country. The  fruit of your womb will  be 
blessed, and the  crops of  your land  and the young  of 
your livestock-- the calves of your herds and the lambs 
of your flocks.  Your basket  and your  kneading trough 
will be blessed. You will  be blessed when you come  in 
and blessed  when you  go  out." If  we obey  God  and 
follow His commands, He  will bless us like  this so we 
may overflow  with blessings   in whatever we   do. As 
long as the source of blessing is God, if  we accept God 
as the center  of our  home, heartily  seek His  kingdom 
and accept Jesus Christ and righteousness in our hearts, 
the door of blessing will be opened to our household.
  Moreover, we  should  have home   worship, keep the 
sabbath day  and  give our   tithe. In  order to   have a 
happy home, we should be  happily connected with God. 
Nowadays, our family members are so busy so we don't 
see them   often. But  even with   a few  members,  we 
should have   home worship  and on   Sunday we  must 
worship God and  give our  tithe to  show proof  of our 
faith that God and we are one.
  We read in  Deuteronomy 6:5-7, "Love  the Lord your 
God with all your heart and with all your soul and with 
all your strength. These commandments that  I give you 
today are to be upon your hearts. Impress them on your 
children. Talk  about them  when you  sit at  home and 
when you walk along the road,  when you lie down and 
when you get  up." Therefore,  we have to  instruct our 
children to  serve God  in  their lives.  Furthermore, we 
have  to  gather  together  and  pray   with our   family 
members. Through prayer, we accept  the Holy Spirit of 
God in our homes and resist the work of the devil.
  Today we  live in  a world  filled with  environmental 
pollution. Air and water  are spoiled and our  food is all 
polluted. In  the same  way the   devil contaminates our 
spiritual  and   mental  lives.   Until  we   expel mental 
contamination and purify  our lives, we  will not   enjoy 
happiness. Therefore, we should not neglect  praying.
  It is   said in  Matthew 18:20,   "Where two  or three 
come together   in my  name, there   am I  with them." 
When we   gather and  pray in   our home,  the   Lord 
abides with us there.
  Psalm 112:1-3 says,  "Praise the Lord.  Blessed is  the 
man who fears the Lord, who finds great  delight in His 
commands. His children will be  mighty in the land;  the 
generation of the  upright will be  blessed. Wealth   and 
riches are in  his house,  and his  righteousness endures 
forever." Hence,   when we   serve God  in  our  hearts, 
righteousness, wealth  and riches  are in  our household. 
Likewise, when we  first have a  right relationship  with 
God and practice it, we can have happy homes.

  Second,  to   have a   happy   home, the   relationship 
between husbands and  wives must  be good.  Husbands 
have  privileges  and  duties.   The Bible   says that   a 
husband is the  head of a  household. A husband  is the 
leader of a household. That's why he has a  right to be 
respected as a  head and  leader in his  home. Unless  a 
man is respected  or treated  well as  a husband  and a 
father in his  household, he is  like a bird  whose wings 
are broken so it can't  fly. He can't do  anything in the 
world. These days households are not made by love and 
respect but by money. That  is the very problem.  If we 
ask the homeless people  who sleep on  the street when 
they will return home, they will answer the  same thing, 
"When we   earn money."  Strictly  speaking, money   is 
their home. Since  their home is  not made  by the love 
and respect of  their wives  and children  but money,  it 
may be broken  anytime. Therefore,  whether a husband 
has money or not, he has the right to be respected as a 
leader and  head  in his  home. That's why  wives and 
children should respect their  husbands and fathers.  If a 
husband or father who is the  core and pillar of a home 
is not respected as a leader, what happens to the home?
  Besides, a 3:19  tells us,  "Husbands, love your  wives 
and do not  be harsh  with them."  Today, there are  so 
many  husbands  who  cause  distress  to   their wives. 
Husbands should lead their  families with authority  in a 
gentle, warmhearted,  friendly, and  sympathetic way  so 
they can make  their homes  sweet. Lately, at  the legal 
information center for family, about 59 percent of  family 
problems are  related  to divorce.   About 59 percent   of 
households are distressed by  divorce problems and then 
about 17   percent by   troubles between  husbands  and 
wives.
  Husbands should   not become  selfish  only for   their 
pleasure. They  may just   want to be  served  by their 
wives and  children  and shout  at home only  for their 
own  enjoyment.   There  are   many  men   who  think 
wrongly-- that only they should eat and dress well  and 
be happy and that their wives  and children are just for 
their pleasure and enjoyment.
  We read in 1 Peter  3:7, "Husbands, in the  same way 
be considerate as  you live  with your  wives, and  treat 
them with respect  as the  weaker partner and  as heirs 
with you of the gracious gift of life, so that nothing will 
hinder  your  prayers."  If  husbands   don't have   good 
relationships with   their wives,   their prayers   will be 
hindered. Many husbands'prayers  are not answered,  for 
they do not consider their wives  precious and have bad 
relationships with  them.  That's why   husbands should 
not live   only for  their own   selfishness and  pleasure. 
Husbands should support  their wives  and children  and 
make their  wives' dreams  come  true. Husbands  must 
support their family  members by all  means possible. If 
husbands are   not able   to support   their family,   that 
means that they give up  their role. Moreover, husbands 
should try their  best to help  their wives and   children 
accomplish their dreams. Do you think it is easy to be a 
husband? Absolutely not. So without  considering all the 
things I've already told  you, you should not  marry nor 
become a   husband. Some   men think   that they   will 
become husbands only if they  marry and have children. 
Yet, they are wrong.
  Wives also have privileges and obligations. They have 
rights to be loved and cherished  by their husbands. For 
God says, "Husbands, love your wives as you love your 
bodies." Wives have the privilege  to ask their husbands 
for love and to be cherished. They  also  have the right 
to get   economic help  from their   husbands. Husbands 
should earn money by working hard and give it to their 
wives in order for them to keep the household. How can 
husbands become  powerful? They  will be  powerful by 
their economic ability. If they are capable   economically, 
they will   be able  to have   strong leadership  in their 
home.  That's  why   husbands should   have  economic 
ability. Without that  they can't lead  their family. They 
should feed, support and lead their family.
  Wives have the right to get economic help  from their 
husbands and have  obligations to submit  themselves to 
their husbands  and  encourage them.   If they  reply to 
their husbands every time and  do not agree with  them, 
their households will be broken.  Though God has given 
the same rights  to man  and woman  in a  home, there 
should be order in family life. A  husband should be the 
head and leader,  and the  wife should  assist, obey and 
respect her husband. If a  wife is not willing  to respect 
and obey, it means that she gives up the obligation as a 
wife. Such  a household  continues  to be  distressed. A 
husband should always be encouraged by his wife.
  Recently,   why  have   husbands  become   homeless? 
Though they have wives  and children, why do  they lie 
in the underpass of  Seoul Station? They  say that they 
can't enter their home until they  make money. If wives 
really  cooperate  with  their   husbands, why   do  they 
mistreat their husbands and  make them leave  home? If 
wives  encourage  and  comfort  their  husbands  during 
rough times, they will be impressed and moved by  love, 
and they will  do any hard  physical work,  won't they? 
However,    husbands   give up  their duties   because 
wives do not serve them well.
  In history,  we always  find good  wives behind  good 
husbands. Those wives  encourage their  husbands even 
during terrible trials. While  Martin Luther was working 
for  religious  reform,   he was   weary  and  exhausted 
because  he   thought  God   abandoned him.   He   was 
disappointed and lay  at home  without going out.  Then 
he heard his  wife crying  loudly in  another room.  She 
was wearing mourning clothes.  Her husband asked  her, 
"Who died?" She  said, "God died."  The husband  asked 
again, "God died?"  The wife  answered, "If  God hadn't 
died, you  wouldn't have  been discouraged  and lain  at 
home. You  believed  in God   and worked for   religious 
reform but now you must  be away from God and  very 
frustrated and I  am sure  that God has  died so  now I 
mourn for  Him."  Much encouraged  and  impressed by 
her, Martin  Luther thought   to himself, "God  is  living 
--why am I depressed?" And he completed the religious 
reform.
  Husbands depend on their wives.  Just a word from a 
wife  can   make  her  husband   die  or   live and   be 
encouraged or discouraged.  That's why  wives have  to 
always be positive toward their husbands and encourage 
and comfort them so that they may go forward.
  Proverbs 14:1   says, "The   wise woman   builds her 
house, but  with her  own hands   the foolish one  tears 
hers down."  Some women  build their  house but  other 
women tear  them down  with their  hands. Wives   also 
have the obligation to take good care of  their home and 
children.
  Proverbs  31:30  tells  us,  "Charm  is  deceptive,  and 
beauty is fleeting; but  a woman who fears  the Lord is 
to be praised." All the charm and beauty are gone, yet a 
woman, who admires and serves God  and cares for her 
home is truly beautiful.
  Today, husbands and wives should become hunters  of 
happiness together. You know, hunters are eager to look 
for animals in the fields  and mountains, aren't they? In 
the same  way,  husbands and   wives should  cooperate 
with each other and  hunt for happiness. In  order to do 
that, husbands and wives should not find fault with each 
other. Who is without fault? Mountains look so beautiful 
at a distance, but if we  go to a beautiful mountain  like 
"Kumgang,"   we   will   see   something   ugly   there. 
Mountains and people may  look good at a  distance but 
they don't look as good when we are near them.
  Since people   have infirmities,  God loves   and saves 
them. Therefore,   do not   find fault   with each   other. 
Everyone makes   mistakes. Each  of us   have different 
character,   education,   circumstance,   background   and 
households.  How  are  the  two  the  same?  Therefore, 
married  couples   should complement   each  other   and 
should not find fault. Please do not  blame each other at 
all. Adam criticized  Eve and she  rebuked the  serpent; 
the  older  brother  blamed  his  younger  one   and the 
younger one   found fault  with  his  older one,   so the 
household of Adam  and Eve was broken, wasn't it?
  Luke 6:36-37 says,  "Be merciful, just  as your Father 
is merciful. Do not judge,  and  you will not be  judged. 
Do  not  condemn,  and  you  will   not be   condemned. 
Forgive, and you will  be forgiven." If  couples condemn 
each other, their home will finally be destroyed. To have 
happiness between  couples, they  have to  be  generous. 
There are many couples who  get mad at each other  so 
often. Once they  are married,  they have  to open  wide 
their hearts. If they misunderstand  and get angry often, 
they   will    have   bad    relationships.   If   husbands 
misunderstand and get angry often, their wives will shut 
their mouths and  vice versa. Their   conversations stop 
and they avoid each other.
  Ephesians 4:26-27 says, "In your anger do not sin. Do 
not let the sun go  down while you are  still angry, and 
do not give  the devil  a foothold." If  we happen  to be 
angry, we must repent before the sun goes down. If we 
do not repent in  one, two or  three days, the devil  will 
attack and  destroy us.  An  old saying  tells us,  "It  is 
easier to rule a nation than a  household." It is not hard 
to  govern  a   nation, for   it  has  policemen,   public 
prosecutors and armies. But it is not so easy to manage 
a household. They say that money  builds the house but 
love establishes  the home.  Money  can build  luxurious 
villas and gorgeous mansions but not sweet homes.   
  Home is  made by  love so  we have  to try  to have 
love. God made Eve out of a rib  for it is closest to the 
heart. Therefore,   the relationship  between couples   are 
those of love but not of sex nor violence. We should not 
try to  solve problems  between  married  couples  with 
some theory, human reason nor  violence, but with love. 
We  should  respect  and   lavish compliments.   Couples 
should respect   each other  and lavish   compliments. A 
wife, who often argued  with her husband seriously  and 
got angry without sleeping, thought  it over and decided 
to change her  husband for  a happy  life. One  day she 
wrote  down the merits and good points of her husband 
on paper and  put it  in an  envelope and  then into  his 
pocket when he left for work. His wife called him at the 
office saying  with the  softest voice,  "Please,  for your 
health, do  not  work too  much,  and be  sure  to have 
lunch." The husband couldn't believe what  he heard. At 
lunch time, he found  an envelope in  his pocket, opened 
it, read all  of his merits  that his  wife had written.  In 
her letter, she  said, "I didn't  realize you  had so many 
good points and  I was  always finding  fault with  you. 
Now I  repent."  At that,   the husband  was so  happy. 
When he came back  home, he found his  merits written 
in a photo frame  hung on the  wall of his room.  Being 
touched, in the office the husband wrote a love  letter to 
his wife  every day.   At last, their  whole  family lived 
happily together.  This story  I  have read  before. Why 
don't  couples  say,  "I'm  sorry.  I  made  a  mistake?" 
Husbands are too  proud to say  they are  sorry and so 
are wives. "I'm sorry. It's  my fault," is like  putting oil 
on a  toothed  wheel. To  say, "I'm sorry,"  is so  good 
and it doesn't hurt your pride at all. The more you say, 
"I'm sorry, I made  a mistake," the  happier your family 
will be.   Please repeat  after me,   "I'm sorry.  It's my 
fault." Say it to  your husbands and  wives. You should 
also try your best to serve your spouses.
  Matthew 7:12  says, "So  in everything,  do  to others 
what you would have them do to you, for this  sums up 
the Law and the Prophets."  When we try to  serve and 
help others with words and actions, they will  do this to 
us. If we  just want to  be served  by others, they  will 
stop serving  us. Our  home life  is like  the law  of an 
echo. If  we shout  loud at   one side, we  can hear   its 
echoes from the other side. In this way, we  have to try 
to  serve  our  spouses.  We  should  begin  to  express 
thanks for just a little thing.
  Our Korean people  do not  say thanks  often enough. 
They  do   not  express   thanks. During   my   pastoral 
ministry I have given a lot of help but  few people have 
thanked me.   God also  sighed over   those who  didn't 
thank Him.  Jesus healed  ten lepers  and nine  of them 
went away   but only  one returned   and thanked  Him. 
Jesus said,   "I healed   ten  lepers  but  nine of   them 
disappeared and   only this   Samaritan came  back  and 
gave thanks to me." God says, "He who sacrifices thank 
offerings honors me, and he prepares  the way so that I 
may show him the salvation of God." We are indifferent 
to God and don't thank  Him. We should thank God  for 
the sun, air, water, crops and life at all times. God is so 
pleased with our thanks and praise.
  The same is  true with  our life. We  are so  thankful 
when we are helped even a little  bit by others. We are 
different from  westerners. They  say, "Thank   you," so 
often. They say, "Thank you," for  just a spoon at meal 
time or for  our moving  a little  for them  to walk  by. 
Yet, we Koreans do not say anything for a spoon or for 
other's moving  for us  to pass.   Husbands do not  say 
thanks to  their  wives for   shaking the  dust off  their 
suits. They take it for granted. When we receive thanks, 
we feel glorified. We have to thank not only for big but 
also for little  things. Japanese  people thank  for just  a 
little thing.  They  say, "Thank   you," so  often. If   we 
move a little  and  let  them pass  by us,  they do  not 
forget to say,  "Thank you."  They also  say thanks for 
just a little  bowl. Please  say, "Thank you.  I'm sorry." 
Without   money   and   work,   we  can   make   good 
relationships  with  others.  Even  between   couples we 
should say thanks more often  and couples will be more 
intimate. Because of the intimate relationship,  we should 
say thanks   to our  wives  more  often  even for   little 
things.
  We should thank  our wives for  shaking the dust  off 
our clothes, for  offering us shoes and for delicious food, 
saying, "You  are an  excellent cook.  I enjoyed  it very 
much. I  thank you  so much.  Let's give  a big  hand." 
How good it  is! We  just eat  with saying  nothing for 
terrible or delicious food.
  Wives, you  should thank  your  husbands for  buying 
cosmetics. You don't like to say,  "Thank you." But you 
have to  thank  him for   cosmetics and  make up  with 
them and display  yourself before  him, saying, "I  really 
thank you. I like them  so much." If your husband  buys 
you a dress, wear  it and say  that you like it  although 
you don't. It would  be O.K. if  you say, "When I  went 
out in  that dress,  my friends   envied me." Then  your 
husband will   say, "I'll  buy you   a better  dress  next 
time." Why don't  you say,  "Thank you?" Say,  "Thank 
you," more often. People easily argue and  are upset due 
to just a little thing. We have to improve our thanks. A 
small fire burns a thick forest.  A little complaint brings 
forth big  dissension and  a little  thank  you big  glory. 
Between couples, we  must not  take things for  granted 
but should give thanks.

  Third,  there  should  be  good  relationships  between 
parents and  children. Parents  have to  be friends   with 
their children all the time.  Parents should not command 
their children   with authority   but should  acknowledge 
their children  and become  friends. Frankly  speaking, I 
didn't  become  a  friend   to my   children  during  my 
ministry. I am so guilty, for I one-sidedly instructed and 
commanded them   and didn't  listen to   them and  talk 
friendly together.  Even now  when they  are grown-up, 
they complain   to me,  "You just   preached to  us and 
instructed us but didn't  listen to us." It  makes me feel 
so guilty. You have  to remove authority  and become a 
friend to your children and share your faith with them.
  Deuteronomy 28:13-14  reads, "The  Lord  will  make 
you the head,  not the tail.  If you  pay attention to  the 
commands of the  Lord your  God that  I give  you this 
day and carefully   follow them,  you  will  always  be  
at the top, never at the bottom.  Do not turn aside from 
any of the commands I  give you today, to  the right or 
to the left,  following other  gods and serving  them." If 
you share  your faith  with your  children,  God will  be 
with them so they will be  the head, not the tail; at  the 
top, never at the bottom; borrow from none, but  lend to 
others. This is what the Bible says. 
  If you just tell your children, "You must study well so 
you can enter a high class university," they may  not be 
successful. You have to know the  best way to worship, 
serve God and to be blessed by Him.  You  should pass 
on your faith to your children.
  According to a  questionnaire in  a monthly magazine, 
"Father and Home," sons  answered that they hate  their 
fathers'   disinterest,   anger,   and   strong    command. 
Daughters hated their mothers  because they didn't care 
for them but complained and compared them with others 
and expected  too  much from   them. When  they were 
asked what they wanted to  be like, they answered  that 
they wanted to have responsibility from their fathers and 
sacrifice for family and strong  faith from their mothers. 
Therefore, parents  should pass   on their faith  to  their 
children.
  We should love  our children with  justice. If we  love 
our children without any instruction, they will be spoiled. 
A child  who  received too  much  care even   killed his 
parents later. Another killed his  parents to receive their 
inheritance. Another   also killed   his  parents  by  fire 
because he was not allowed to have a  girlfriend. That's 
because his  parents  didn't love   him with  justice but 
with too  much care  so that   the child became  selfish. 
Therefore, it is more important to raise children to  have 
good character than  to let them  only study well.  They 
can study during their whole life.
  Studying doesn't   make them  good  people.  Children 
should grow up  with morality.  If they serve  God well 
and observe moral and  ethical  laws well, they  will be 
respected and   honor their   parents and   prosper. You 
should become   a good   counselor for   your children's 
problems and afflictions so  they open wide  their hearts 
to tell  you every   distress. Yet, if  parents  just blame 
their children, they  won't tell  their problems  to  their 
parents but to their  bad friends or read  bad books and 
be misled.   You should  teach your   children that  they 
can't live alone in this world  but must live together so 
they may  worship God  together, travel  together, make 
them have pity  on poor  people and  help poor  orphans 
and visit  old people's   homes. They must   realize that 
they should live together with  others including both the 
weak and the strong. Then they will lead happy lives. If 
they are so selfish and try  to make use of people,  they 
will cause many troubles and may finally commit crimes 
later. Children   should honor   their parents.   To honor 
parents should   be the  foundation for   all their  deeds. 
Those who honor their parents well  will also take good 
care of  their wives  and  become great  in the   society, 
while those who don't honor their  parents will not care 
for their wives and become bad in the society.
  Today many wives keep their husbands from honoring 
their parents.  They say,   "Why do you  give  a lot  of 
money to your parents? Why do  you devote yourself to 
your parents?" It is like they prick their eyes  with their 
own fingers. For the   husband who  doesn't honor  his 
parents will not take good care of his wife  and will not 
be respected in the society.
Leviticus 19:3   says, "Each   of you   must respect  his 
mother and father, and you must  observe my Sabbaths. 
I am the Lord  your  God."
  Exodus 20:12 also says,  "Honor your father and  your 
mother, so that you may live  long in the land the Lord 
your God is giving you." God has promised that he who 
honors  his  parents   will live   long  and   be blessed. 
Therefore, what  children need  to do  is to  honor their 
parents. They have to speak and  act politely to express 
honor toward their  parents. If  children disregard  them, 
say bad words and criticize their parents,  God will  not 
be pleased   with  them.  To  honor  parents is   to be 
careful in our behavior and to please them.
  It is written in Proverbs  23:25, "May your father  and 
mother be glad;  may she who  gave you birth  rejoice!" 
We can  honor our  parents by  thinking how  to please 
them and   by practicing  it in   reality. We  should not 
disgrace our parents. If we are lazy in  our lives and do 
not support our family, it will make our parents troubled 
and disgraced. If children indulge themselves in drinking, 
lust and gambling, they will also  disgrace their parents. 
Those  who  commit  terrible   crimes will   make  their 
parents ashamed. To honor our  parents we should  not 
distress them. We should support them.
  In Matthew 15:4,  "God said,  'Honor your  father and 
mother.' And 'Anyone who curses  his father or mother 
must be put  to death."  The Bible  says, "Anyone  who 
curses his   father or  mother  must be   put to  death." 
Children should   support their  parents  well.  Even the 
raven feeds   and support   its mother.   However, some 
people do   not support  their  parents but   throw them 
away. But  children should   keep it in   mind that they 
have to always honor their parents. To honor parents  is 
the core action among 100 good deeds. Since it is God's 
command to honor our parents, we must observe this in 
our lives.

  Finally, to  have a  happy home,  we should  lead our 
lives by  attending church.  All  family members  should 
participate  in  erving   and fellowship   in  the   church. 
Cornelius' family  was godly,  feared God,  helped many 
poor people and prayed to Him at all times. If all family 
members attend the Sunday service at church and serve 
God heartily, they will have a great opportunity  to have 
a happy home. For when they  worship, praise and pray 
to God, the  Lord who changed  water into wine  at the 
wedding feast in  Cana will give  us a  great change in 
our lives.  At church,  we can  make good  friends with 
other families.  We can't  live alone.  Bad  friends make 
our lives  terrible.  Since we  can  acquire good   friends 
who worship   and serve   God with   their family,   the 
church is very  good for us.  We can get  together with 
our family members at church even though we are very 
busy.
  After  the  service,  we   can have   lunch  or  dinner 
together and return home, so  we can have time  to talk 
together and  have a  happy home.  An unhappy   family 
experiences hell  on  earth. Yet,  the family,  who cares 
for one another, loves, is compassionate, encourages  and 
cooperates with  one another,  will be  able  to be  filled 
with comfort, joy and  happiness. Those who  are happy 
at home will  be prosperous.  If they  are unhappy  with 
their  family,  they   will be   destroyed  in   everything. 
"Happy homes make  everything good," symbolizes  that. 
Therefore, may you  take good  care of  the family God 
gave you and enjoy happiness and enter into the eternal 
home in heaven! Shall we bow down and pray together?

-Prayer-
  Dear God our Father Who is holy and has  great love, 
Please help us  beautifully care for  the home  you have 
given us by serving  God in our hearts.  Let us become 
hunters who search for happiness. Please  grant us good 
relationships with our God, spouses,   parents,  children, 
family and   church so  that we   may be  tremendously 
blessed. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
