Sunday, April 25th 1999
Title : I am a Strong Man.
Scripture Reading : 2Co 5:17

I once saw a documentary on  the food chain system in 
nature on TV.  Small fish eat   plankton, medium  sized 
fish eat small fish, and large fish eat medium sized fish. 
The same is  true with  land animals. To  make a  long 
story short,   weaker animals   are subject   to stronger 
ones. The same is also true with man. In  such a brutal 
world of competition, weak  people or weak  nations are 
subject to  and  controlled by   strong people or   strong 
nations.  To   survive  in   this  world   and  to   attain 
happiness, we need  to be  strong. When we  are weak, 
we may bitterly  weep and gain  sympathy from others. 
However, sympathy   for weak  people  does  not  mean 
anything. There are a  few things that  we must realize 
in our hearts in order to be strong.

  First, in order  to be  strong, we  need to  know how 
weak we really are. People are not likely to realize  how 
weak they actually  are. When God  first created Adam, 
He made him very strong.  Since God ordered Adam  to 
rule over all the animals, we can say that man was  the 
strongest among all creatures. God told Adam to fill the 
earth and subdue it,  which means that  he was created 
as the king  of the  earth. Nothing  was more  powerful 
than Adam and Eve.
  Genesis 1:28   says, "God  blessed them   and said  to 
them, 'Be fruitful and increase in  number; fill the earth 
and subdue it.  Rule over  the fish  of the  sea and  the 
birds of   the air  and over   every living  creature that 
moves on the ground.'" Therefore  Adam and Eve were 
the rulers  and nothing  was more  powerful than  they. 
However, when Adam and Eve rebelled against God and 
were expelled from  Eden, they became  very weak. Sin 
possessed them   and gained  control  over them.   They 
became slaves of  sin. They  became the  slaves of  the 
world and did  whatever the  devil ordered  them. They 
became the slaves of worries, insecurity, fear and hatred 
and was to constantly face uncontrollable storms in their 
hearts. Both their spirits and bodies were sick and were 
doomed to die in pain. Tragically, they became poor and 
lived miserably among thorns and thistles  as the slaves 
of curses.  Ultimately, their  spirits were  doomed to  be 
thrown into  hell.  The very   nature of man,   therefore, 
after the Fall, is desperate and subject to death. For this 
reason,  all  the  descendants  of   Adam and   Eve are 
hopelessly weak. We are really weak in nature.

  Second, after  realizing how  weak we  are,  we must 
understand the   greatness of  the redemption   of Jesus 
Christ. We must  realize how  great the grace  of Jesus 
Christ is in  purchasing us  through His torn  body and 
shed blood  on the  cross. The  most powerful  and  the 
strongest Son of  God came on  earth in the  form of a 
weak slave.

  Isaiah 53:1-3  says, "Who  has believed   our message 
and to whom  has the arm  of the Lord  been revealed? 
He grew up before  him like a tender  shoot, and like a 
root out of dry ground. He had no beauty or majesty to 
attract us  to him,  nothing in   his appearance that  we 
should desire  him.  He was   despised and  rejected by 
men, a  man  of sorrows,   and familiar  with suffering. 
Like one   from whom  men  hide  their faces   he was 
despised, and we esteemed him not." Jesus was born as 
the meekest, weakest and lowliest  from His birth. That 
was because  He had   to be weak  to  save the  weak. 
Although  all   things  were  made   through  Him  and 
without Him nothing was made  that has been made, in 
order to identify Himself  with man, Jesus was  born as 
a meek and  weak man.  Throughout His  life on earth, 
He lived as  a weak  man. He had  nothing to  do with 
wealth or power while He was living on earth. He  said, 
"Foxes have holes and birds  of the air have  nests, but 
the Son of Man has no place to lay His  head." He was 
powerlessly judged   at the  court of   man, after  being 
arrested by the Roman soldiers. How could God  become 
so weak to be judged in  the court of man? He  became 
so weak that He was judged and convicted in the  court 
of man.  He took  the cross  and went  out to  Calvary, 
staggering and falling. He was treated as a criminal and 
crucified as such.  The Son  of God was  crucified with 
vicious criminals--one on His right  and another on His 
left. He took the burden of sin. He was trampled by the 
devil. He was deserted and forsaken.  He was hurt, sad 
and crucified naked.
  In Psalm 22:1, Jesus  spoke of what would  happen to 
Himself through the  Psalmist, "My God,  my God, why 
have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving 
me, so far from the  words of my groaning?" The  Lord 
looked ahead into future and cried through the Psalmist. 
Verse 6   says, "But  I  am a   worm and  not  a man, 
scorned by men and despised by the  people." Verses 16 
through 18  also  says, "Dogs   have surrounded  me; a 
band of evil  men has  encircled me,  they have  pierced 
my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones; people 
stare and   gloat over  me.  They divide   my garments 
among them and  cast lots for  my clothing."  Like this, 
Christ came  on  earth as   a very  weak  man,   being 
despised and  forsaken as   much as any   man can be. 
However, on the third day  of His death and  burial, He 
rose up  again, triumphing   over all things.  Unless  He 
had been resurrected, man would have been defeated by 
eternal weakness. Since  Jesus took all the infirmities of 
man, was judged, killed and buried  instead of man, and 
since He was resurrected triumphing over  all weakness, 
He became the strongest.
  Colossians  2:15   says,  "And  having   disarmed  the 
powers and authorities,  He made  a public  spectacle of 
them, triumphing  over  them by   the cross."  As it   is 
written here,  Jesus defeated  and disarmed  the powers 
and authorities,   triumphing over   them by   the cross. 
Therefore, Jesus became  the eternal victor.  Jesus came 
on earth   as a   weak man   for us.  He  took  all  the 
infirmities, died  on the  cross and  was buried  for and 
instead of us. He overcame death and rose up again  for 
us. Therefore, we  must know  that we are   made one 
with Jesus.

Third,  we   must  realize   what  we  Christians   have 
become. "Therefore, if anyone is in  Christ, he is a new 
creation; the   old has  gone, the   new has  come!" By 
believing in Christ, we are not accepting a religion  or a 
ceremony but we are accepting the fundamental changes 
in our  lives.  The Bible  says  that anyone  who  is in 
Christ is a new creation.  It means that when  we enter 
into Christ, we will be in Him and  He will be in us so 
that we and Christ will have the same destiny. 
  Romans 6:6-7 says,  "For we know  that our  old self 
was crucified with Him  so that the  body of sin  might 
be done away with, that we should no  longer be slaves 
to sin--because  anyone who  has died  has been  freed 
from sin." Believing  in Jesus  is more  than a religious 
act. It is the  existential unity with  Jesus. Jesus comes 
into us and accepts  us so that  we will be united  with 
Him.   Through  Christ,   we   are   dead,  buried   and 
resurrected. He was identified with us  in weakness and 
He suffered, died and was buried  for us. Since He was 
resurrected as the strong one, we can participate  in His 
strength. Therefore, when we believe in Jesus, we  must 
accept the notion of unity in  destiny with Him. This is 
why  the  Bible  says,  "The  old  has   gone." All   the 
descendents of  Adam are  gone.  We can  take off  the 
weakness as  the descendants  of  Adam through  Jesus 
Christ. In  other words,   we are transformed   from the 
slaves of sin to the children of righteousness.

Ephesians 4:22-24 says, "You  were taught, with  regard 
to your  former way  of life,  to put  off  your old  self, 
which is being corrupted  by its deceitful desires;  to be 
made new in the attitude of  your minds; and to put on 
the   new  self,   created   to  be   like   God   in  true 
righteousness and holiness." We must close and take off 
the past. After that, we must  put on the new self with 
Christ. This means that  a grand change  takes place in 
our hearts. We are  transformed from the  slaves of the 
world and of the devil to holy victors. We are no longer 
slaves of the world  or the devil.  We have risen up  as 
holy victors in Jesus Christ.  The kingdom of heaven is 
within us  now.  The Holy   Spirit is in   us. We  must 
realize that we  are the victors  and the  citizens of the 
heavenly kingdom.

  Luke 11:20-22 says, "But if I drive out demons by the 
finger of God,  then the  kingdom of  God has  come to 
you. When a strong  man, fully armed,  guards his own 
house, his   possessions are   safe. But   when someone 
stronger attacks and overpowers him, he takes away the 
armor in  which  the man  trusted  and divides   up the 
spoils." Jesus, who is stronger than the devil,  will come 
to us, disarm  the devil  and will let  us  share  in His 
victory.
  1 John 3:8 says, "The reason the Son of God appeared 
was to destroy the devil's work."  When the resurrected 
Christ enters in our hearts, He  drives the slaves of the 
devil and destroys  the work of  the devil. He  gives us 
the heavenly  kingdom and  the  Holy Spirit,  letting us 
have the strong power of God. By coming to our hearts, 
Jesus transforms   us from   the slaves   of the   world, 
worries and hatred into  the children of   joy and hope. 
Who in the world is not the slaves of worries, anxieties 
and restlessness  while  living on  earth?  However, the 
Lord says, "Come  to me,  all you  who are  weary and 
burdened, and I will give you rest." He will take care of 
and overcome  everything and   transform us, filling  us 
with joy and hope.
  Romans 5:5 says,  "And hope does  not disappoint us, 
because God has poured out His love into our hearts by 
the Holy Spirit, whom He has given us." God pours His 
love upon us  instead of worries,  despair, anxieties  and 
hopelessness, and   thus, fills   us with   joy and   hope, 
bringing grand changes in our  hearts. We are delivered 
from the diseases of our minds and bodies.  When Jesus 
was crucified, He took  all the diseases. He  looks at us 
from above  and says,  "I took  all your  infirmities and 
diseases myself.  By my  wounds, you  are healed."  He 
saw our  weakness, took  all the  diseases to  the cross 
and put an end to them. He renews us and fills us with 
divine healing, good health and abundant life.
  Matthew 8:16-17 says, "He drove out  the spirits with 
a word and healed all the sick. This was to  fulfill what 
was spoken through the prophet Isaiah: 'He took up our 
infirmities and carried  our diseases.'"  Since Jesus took 
all  our   infirmities,  we  don't   have  to  carry   them 
ourselves. Since   Jesus took   all our   weaknesses, we 
don't have to  carry them,  either. When  we know  the 
truth, we must be confident in resisting and casting out 
diseases and weaknesses  in the  name of Jesus.  Hosea 
lamented  that   people perished   due  to   the lack   of 
knowledge. We may be destroyed if we  don't know the 
truth. Now that  we know the  truth, we don't  have to 
be deceived by the devil.
  Luke  10:19  says,  "I  have  given  you  authority  to 
trample on  snakes and  scorpions and  to overcome  all 
the power of  the enemy;  nothing will  harm you."  We 
have been made strong  in Jesus. We  used to be weak 
but we have taken  off our old  weakness and now, we 
are clothed  with strength  by Christ,  for  He took  our 
weakness,   overcame   it   on   the   cross,  and   was 
resurrected from death. Therefore, we are delivered from 
the slavery of  death and  destruction, being born again 
as citizens of heaven  and eternal life.  Since Jesus was 
dead and resurrected  from death,  He cannot die  again. 
The power of  death cannot control  Him. We overcame 
death and  have accepted   eternal life, resurrection  and 
the kingdom of heaven through Jesus.
  John 11:25-26  says,  "Jesus said   to her,  'I am  the 
resurrection and the  life. He who   believes in me  will 
live,  even  though  he   dies; and   whoever lives   and 
believes in me  will never  die.'" We  have become  one 
with Christ  in life  and death.  We  must listen  to the 
word of God, "The new has come." We must accept the 
fact that the old things  have passed away and that  we 
Christians have become  new as  God proclaimed before 
all things in the universe. We must dream, think, speak, 
believe and act  as new  creations. We  should not  live 
like slaves. We have been made strong with Christ.
  1 John 2:14  says, "You are  strong, and the  word of 
God lives in you, and you have overcome the evil one."
  1 Peter  2:9 says,  "But  you are  a chosen  people,  a 
royal priesthood,  a holy  nation, a   people belonging to 
God, that   you may  declare the   praises of  Him who 
called you out of darkness into His wonderful light." We 
must realize that we are made strong and new; that we 
have received the  spiritual and  physical blessings; that 
we have received   abundant life; and  that we need  to 
proclaim the glory of Christ all over the world. We need 
to know who we are. The Bible says that the truth will 
set us free  when it  comes. When we  don't know  the 
truth,   we  will   remain  as   captives   of  the   devil.   
However, when we  know the truth,  we can resist  and 
cast out the  devil in  seven directions. We  must know 
who we are  and fight all  the problems with  faith. We 
must fight,  resist and  cast out  all the  problems  with 
faith. The   Lord said,   "From the   days of   John the 
Baptist until   now, the  kingdom  of  heaven has   been 
forcefully advancing,  and forceful  men lay  hold of  it." 
Once we have realized who we  are and what we have, 
we must   forcefully advance  toward heaven   and take 
hold of it.  We must  also resist and  gain victory  over 
the devil  which tries  to kill  and destroy  us with  the 
name of  Christ. We   are sitting with   Christ and rule 
over the world. We are  not controlled by the  devil like 
slaves but we reign with Christ.

  2  Timothy  2:11-12  says,   "Here is   a  trustworthy 
saying: If  we died  with Him,   we will also  live with 
Him; if we endure, we  will also reign with Him.  If we 
disown   Him,  He   will  also   disown  us."   We   are 
resurrected with Christ  and reign  with Him. We  reign 
with righteousness;  in the  Holy Spirit  and in  heaven; 
with joy and healing; in blessings and prosperity; and in 
the glory  of eternal  life, resurrection  and heaven.   We 
are kings and rulers. We will enjoy and share the life of 
Christ, reigning with Him.
  This is why God has given the passage of 3 John 1:2. 
"Dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and 
that all may  go well  with you,  even as  your soul  is 
getting along   well." We  can  receive God's   blessings 
when we know who  we are in  Christ. We must know 
our weakness first. We will be  foolish if we pretend to 
be strong without knowing how weak we really are. We 
must know that we  used to be weak  and lowly before 
believing in  Jesus. We   used to be   controlled by sin, 
following the   devil and   the world.   We used   to be 
always sad,, full  of worries and  anxieties. We used  to 
be stricken by various diseases, toiling  and sweating to 
make a living. Our whole life used to be  surrounded by 
thorns and   thistles. We   were destined   to disappear, 
being snatched by death. We must know  how weak we 
really were. We must know that we  were to wander in 
a maze, with  diseases that  will lead  us to  death. We 
must know that Jesus came on earth as a weak man to 
save us.  God became  a man  and took  our infirmities 
and was sacrificed on the cross for us. Jesus was nailed 
on the cross for us. He suffered there and, thus,  put an 
end to   our weakness  with  His torn   body and  shed 
blood. He was resurrected from  death on the third day, 
overcoming sin; the  devil and   the world; sorrow  and 
diseases; curses and poverty;  death and destruction. He 
was resurrected with  eternal power. He  has come  into 
our hearts. He wants us to come to  Him and share His 
godliness.
  Therefore new   creations are  those  who  share  His 
godliness with   Him. Now   that we  have  shared  our 
weakness with Christ, we  must share His  victory with 
Him. We should  not think  that we are  weak. That  is 
because old  things  have passed   away in  Christ. We 
should not be excessively attached  to what has passed. 
We must look at the  cross and have the  self image of 
new creations   as the   Bible declares,  "The  new  has 
come!" The cross of Jesus Christ is the place where we 
were born again.  It is  like our mother  and our  home. 
We must look  at the cross  of Christ, take  off our old 
self,  and  put  on  the  new  self.   We must   do that 
everyday. We  must ponder  it in  our hearts,   too. Our 
thoughts determine our actions.  When our thoughts  are 
filled with  the victory   of Jesus Christ,  we  will have 
victorious lives.
  The Bible says  that the  devil had  already prompted 
Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, to betray  Jesus and Judas 
betrayed Jesus. The devil planted in the hearts of Adam 
and Eve the thought  to eat the  fruit of the  knowledge 
of good and  evil. Subsequently,  they ate the  fruit and 
rebelled against God.  When we  look at  the cross  and 
ponder the five-fold  gospel and the  three-fold blessing 
that  Jesus   established  for   us,  we   will live   with 
prosperity and victory.  Therefore, we must  look at the 
cross and clothe ourselves with the new self, put off the 
old things, and fill us with  the new thoughts of Christ. 
Then, we must boldly  proclaim the confession  of faith. 
We must know that our words will be the seed of what 
will come. We must plant the seed of life with our  lips. 
We must   proclaim, "I  am  made righteous   in Christ. 
Heaven and the Holy Spirit is within me in Christ. I am 
filled with good  health and  divine healing.  I am  filled 
with blessings  and prosperity.  I have  the resurrection, 
eternal life and  heaven." We must  confess this on  our 
lips. We  will bear  the fruits   of our words  when we 
confess it   on our   lips. Both   our thoughts   and our 
confessions work  as the  seed.  We also  have to  give 
thanks to God. We  must always thank  and praise God 
for His grace and  blessings. Let us  give the sacrifices 
of thanksgiving to God without  ceasing. Then we must 
be bold  and  confident. We   are not the   old self  any 
more. We  have put  on  the new  self. We  are  strong 
now. We  must resist  the  enemy with  confidence and 
courage. We  don't  have to   shudder with fear   before 
them. We  can cast  them out,  saying, "You,   devil, go 
away! You, sickness,  go away! You,  curses, go  away! 
O, death,  where is   your sting? Go   away!" We must 
resist the devil and live like  royal priests with strength 
and confidence. We must reign. When we live positively, 
actively and creatively  in our thoughts  and words  and 
actions, we will  have the overflowing  glory of  God in 
our lives.
