1999.11.14
Title : Those Who Cause Unhappiness
Scripture Reading : Mt 7:12

People are born into different circumstances. While some 
are born into the best of  circumstances and live the best of 
lives, others are born into poverty and suffer hunger and 
other hardships in life, living a life of tears. However, such 
circumstances do not necessarily determine one's future. 
Of the many great people who have influenced this world, 
there are those who were born into hardship.
 The 16th president of the United States, Abraham Lincoln, 
was born in a log cabin that leaked when it rained. Not 
able to receive formal education, his mother used the Bible 
to teach him to read and write. However, his self-study led 
to his passing the bar, and later to the presidency and his 
great work of keeping the United States intact.
 Edison also suffered hardship and was kicked out of 
school. He later became deaf. Yet, he became the greatest 
of inventors. Helen Keller suffered a fever that left her 
blind, deaf and dumb at 19 months of age. However, 
through incredible effort and God's grace, she became a 
great symbol to the world.
 So you can see, being born into adversity does not mean 
the rest of one's life must be miserable. One's happiness is 
much the same way. Just because a person is happy 
circumstantially doesn't mean he or she is happy inside. 
There are unhappy people and many of them commit 
suicide. Conversely, many that are circumstantially 
miserable may have great inner joy and happiness. 
Happiness and misery are all in the mind and heart. We 
must realize the truth of this. However, there are those who 
cause unhappiness.
 In a hamlet, there was a wise old man. Many people in 
the hamlet went to the man to have their problems heard 
and solved by the wise man. However, some mischievous 
young men decided to test the man and brought a live 
sparrow to him, holding it in a fist. Then they asked the old 
man, "Is the sparrow in the fist dead or alive?" If the old 
man were to say the sparrow was dead, the young men 
planned to release the bird and laugh at the old man. If the 
old man were to say it was alive, the young men planned to 
squeeze the life out of the bird and laugh at him. They had 
him cornered. The old man looked carefully and then said 
to the young men, "The question of it being alive or dead 
is in your very fist." Happiness or misery in our lives is in 
our hands. It is dependent upon us. Then what kind of 
person causes unhappiness?

 First, legalists cause unhappiness for both themselves 
and for others. Thinking they are righteous keepers of the 
Law, they are always ready to criticize and judge the 
failures of others. God cannot bless such people.
 It is written in Luke 18:9-14, "To some who were 
confident of their own righteousness and looked down on 
everybody else, Jesus told this parable: 'Two men went up 
to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax 
collector. The Pharisee stood up and prayed about himself: 
"God, I thank you that I am not like other men ? robbers, 
evildoers, adulterers ? or even like this tax collector. I fast 
twice a week and give a tenth of all I get." But the tax 
collector stood at a distance. He would not even look up to 
heaven, but beat his breast and said, "God, have mercy on 
me, a sinner." I tell you that this man, rather than the other, 
went home justified before God. For everyone who exalts 
himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will 
be exalted.'" As Christ has said, God does not call  
legalists as righteous, who consider themselves to be 
righteous keepers of the law to criticize and judge others. 
Rather, He calls righteous the ones who repent, surrender 
and beat their breasts because of their sin. Legalists injure 
all those with whom they come into contact. In place of 
forgiveness, love and understanding, they are like thorny 
branches that cut and injure all that come near. In a 
marriage, a legalistic husband drives his beloved wife 
away from him. In all matters, big and small, he recites the 
law?criticizing and judging her for even minor infractions. 
She simply cannot live with him. In addition, it is the same 
with a legalistic wife. Why? When a wife criticizes her 
husband for every single thing, judging him, he will have 
no choice but to leave her.
 It is written in Romans 2:1, "You, therefore, have no 
excuse, you who pass judgment on someone else, for at 
whatever point you judge the other, you are condemning 
yourself, because you who pass judgment do the same 
things." In my 40 years of ministry, I have observed that it 
is the hypocrites who judge others most severely. I have 
seen that the truly righteous ones embrace and forgive 
others, while the shallowest hypocrites criticize and judge 
most severely their fellow church members and also the 
servants of God. There is a psychological explanation for 
this. Psychologists call it reflective response. A habitual 
liar detests those who lie habitually, and a thief is most 
afraid of being robbed.
 In the past, a very famous American pastor indulged in 
sin. He led an adulterous life. However, on TV he 
unleashed great fury at adulterers. His fury at such sin was 
limitless. Then he was arrested for lewd behavior. Why? 
Men have a psychological tendency to criticize others of 
their own sin in order to protect themselves. This is the 
legalist. Many legalists are hypocrites who hide behind a 
veil of laws. These people cause unhappiness for all. We 
must avoid being such a person. Rather, we must 
remember the forgiveness and love of Christ on Calvary 
and live with understanding.

 Second, those who are self-righteous bring unhappiness 
for all people. Many people believe only their ideas and 
reasons are correct and they denounce that of others. In my 
experience in counseling couples, one of the biggest 
reasons for trouble arises from either the husband or the 
wife being stubborn about him or her being right. A 
husband would not even let his wife talk. All his decisions 
are right and he has complete supremacy. What wife can 
endure such blind submission for very long? Likewise, 
some wives think they are always correct and their 
husbands are always wrong. They try to dominate their 
husbands and have them follow their will. There are many 
such stubborn people around us today. A person simply 
cannot live with such people. Without communication, 
everything is a one-way street. These days it looks as 
though the Korean congress is full of such people. The 
ruling party is stubborn about its wants, the opposition is 
nonetheless stubborn, and there is no compromise. Nothing 
can be accomplished this way.
 It is written in Luke 16:15, "He said to them, 'You are 
the ones who justify yourselves in the eyes of men, but 
God knows your hearts. What is highly valued among men 
is detestable in God's sight." God hates those who are 
stubborn and try to raise themselves above others. None of 
us are perfect; there is no need for any of us to be stubborn. 
Those who are stubborn scoff at the thoughts and opinions 
of others. They believe they are the only ones who are 
right.
 Once I went to the home of a successful Korean-
American man in America to lead a worship service. The 
people I went with referred to me as, "Dr. Cho, Dr. Cho." 
The Korean-American man turned to me red-faced and 
asked, "Where did you get your doctorate?" I replied, "I'm 
sorry, I really didn't write any thesis at a university. But I 
received an honorary doctorate." Then he shouted, "An 
honorary doctorate is not a degree! Don't call yourself a 
'doctor'! How shameful! People like me who wrote a 
thesis and had a doctorate conferred upon him deserve to 
be called 'doctor?not those with an honorary degree. It is 
such people with honorary degrees who go around and 
give real 'doctors' a bad name." I was so embarrassed and 
ashamed, I didn't know whether to sit or stand or go out of 
the house. So I said, "You are right. That is a wrong title." 
I told the people who had called me Doctor Cho to stop 
calling me by that title. Even today I cannot forget that 
man. Does God also consider him to be a great doctor?
 It is written in Proverbs 16:18-19, "Pride goes before 
destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall. Better to be 
lowly in spirit and among the oppressed than to share 
plunder with the proud." Pride bordering on arrogance can 
be very dangerous. Those who are stubborn are indeed 
arrogant. Those who think only they are right and all 
others are wrong and bad bring unhappiness to themselves 
as well as to others. They trample and stomp on the self-
respect of others without remorse. The last refuge of every 
person is his self-respect. When a man loses his self-
respect, nothing can stop him from staying on the right 
path in life. The self-respect that holds a person together is 
the final protector of his conscience.
 Even Jesus Christ avoided damaging the self-respect of 
others. Christ left the self-respect intact of the woman who 
was captured in the act of adultery saying, "Neither do I 
condemn you. Go and sin no more." Jesus did not even 
trample on the self-respect of the woman at the well who 
had married five times. He said to her, "Go and bring your 
husband."  She replied, "I do not have one." And Christ 
said, "That is right, although you have been married five 
times, you do not have a husband." Christ did not injure 
her self-respect. Stubborn people believe themselves to be 
correct and disregard others.
 Some time ago, a man who had finished school later than 
others found employment and married a very stubborn 
woman. She always said to him, "You graduated late and 
although you have a job, you never get promoted. I am 
embarrassed to meet my friends whose husbands have 
been promoted. It's a real shame." Day in and day out, the 
man's pride and self-respect began to corrode. Then she 
said to him, "This house is much too small. If you were the 
manager of the department, you could get a raise, and we 
could get a bigger house. I can't stand living in this tiny 
place."  Then came a time for promotions for which he had 
to take a test. The husband spent many nights studying for 
the test. The wife, without helping him in his effort to 
study, only said, "We shall see how able you are. Prove 
yourself. If you can't get a promotion this time, I will call 
you a big loser from now on. You aren't a man. He truly 
studied for his very life. On the day of the test, he got the 
test papers, and he wrote in big letters, "This is the end." 
Right on the test paper. Then he went out and died. The 
man could not continue living amid her constant criticism 
and berating.
 On the other hand, there are wives who are exactly the 
opposite. When the husband is in despair, the wife 
continues to encourage him saying, "You can do it. I am 
very proud of you. Don't give up; be strong." There are 
many wives who help their husbands out of such pitfalls. 
Those who are stubborn only make themselves and others 
unhappy.

 Third, those who always compare themselves to others 
bring unhappiness to all. When they feel they are better 
than others, they are arrogant  Such a man brings 
unhappiness to himself as well as to others. In addition, 
when such a man feels others are better than he is, he 
develops an inferiority complex that causes him to have 
great hatred for others. They try to find ways to harm and 
injure others. Isn't this truly miserable? The Bible tells us 
that each one has been given a measure of faith and that 
each must live happily according to it.
 It is written in Romans 12:3, "For by the grace given me 
I say to every one of you: Do not think of yourself more 
highly than you ought, but rather think of yourself with 
sober judgment, in accordance with the measure of faith 
God has given you." God has given to each one a measure 
of faith and tells us to live according to that measure of 
faith. We must not compete with others but live faithfully 
with God's help. God may give great material blessing to 
one who has a small measure of faith and give little 
material blessing to one who has a great measure of faith. 
Whatever the case may be, we must be satisfied with what 
God grants each of us. A wildflower, having resentment 
because it is not a rose, can grumble for a lifetime, but it 
will remain a wildflower. A shrub may complain for a 
lifetime because it wants to be a tree, but it will remain a 
shrub. God created the wildflower, the rose, and the shrubs 
that grow everywhere yet are not adored. God has made 
them all according to His grand design reflecting His 
providence; all creation must be satisfied. When a person 
continues to compare himself to others, it is an act of 
rebellion against the providence of God. The Creator made 
such for a reason, and we must give thanks. Only then can 
we glorify our God.

 Fourth, narrow-minded people bring unhappiness to 
themselves and others. There are many people who let 
every little thing bother them. Such people scold and nag 
endlessly. When such a husband comes home, he rattles 
off an endless stream of scolding. Why aren't the shoes 
neatly in their place? Why hasn't the floor been mopped? 
Why aren't the rags in the kitchen sink clean and dry? 
Why haven't you taken out the trash? A man should not be 
so limited in his outlook…so narrow-minded. He should 
come home and embrace his family first. No one can live 
with a man who gets involved in even the tiniest of matters 
and pushes others around. Such a man carries around a 
magnifying glass at work. Even the tiniest of wrongdoings 
at work are magnified and a cause for a ruckus. At church, 
there are such wide-eyed deacons and wide-eyed elders. 
Such wide-eyed deacons and elders go around criticizing, 
judging and scolding everyone in the church. These people 
make themselves unhappy; they make others unhappy, and 
they especially make God unhappy. Man should live with 
an open mind, and with faith in God, depending upon Him. 
Scolding others endlessly will not solve anything.
 It is written in Proverbs 16:1-2, "To man belong the 
plans of the heart, but from the LORD comes the reply of 
the tongue. All a man's ways seem innocent to him, but 
motives are weighed by the LORD." Although we may 
feel we are righteous in all things, God sees otherwise. 
Therefore, we don't need to discover everything with a 
magnifying glass. Be broad-minded and let God show you 
His will. When a narrow-minded man carries around a 
magnifying glass, his wife will not be able to live with him.
 It is written in 1 Timothy 5:22, "Do not share in the sins 
of others. Keep yourself pure." We shouldn't get involved 
neither in nor with the sins of others but keep ourselves 
pure. If you can't forgive but continue to scold others' 
mistakes, God will not be pleased.
 It is written in Colossians 3:12-13, "Therefore, as God's 
chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves 
with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness and 
patience. Bear with each other and forgive whatever 
grievances you may have against one another. Forgive as 
the Lord forgave you." Has God forgiven you? I have 
received God's great forgiveness. I shouldn't go around 
acting as though I had nothing to be forgiven for. Since 
God has forgiven each one of us, we all have a debt to 
forgive others. When you have an open mind and can 
forgive others as you embrace them with love, then you 
can live in harmony with others.

 Fifth, those who can't trust others bring unhappiness for 
all concerned. When a husband and a wife can't trust one 
another, their marriage will be miserable. Recently, a man 
came to me for counseling. His wife couldn't trust him and 
questioned him about every little detail of his life. When 
the man came home, she would ask who he had dinner 
with, where he was at certain hours, why he came home 
late and so on. As this continued day after day, he couldn't 
bear to live with her and he asked me what he should do. I 
said, "What's there to do? You married her; now you have 
no choice but to live with her until death. But you need to 
bring her to church and to Prayer Mountain and pray that 
God will bring about a change in her." A woman once told 
me that her husband called her 12 times a day. "Where 
were you?"  "I went to the restroom." "What are you 
doing?" "I am cleaning the house." "Where did you go?" 
"I went to the market." "Why didn't you get the phone?" 
"I was at the market." This continued day after day for 
many years. The wife had had enough of his suspicion and 
interrogation. She couldn't meet any of her friends. She 
couldn't even go to the market. "Whenever I go anywhere, 
he would ask me what man I was seeing behind his back. I 
simply cannot live like this." Although this world has 
become untrustworthy, you must trust your husbands and 
wives. Distrust can backfire on you. If you continue to 
distrust your wife or husband, they are liable to say, "Okay, 
since you don't trust me, I will grant your wish and do 
exactly the things you suspect of me. Either way you don't 
trust me, whether I am faithful or not." They will rebel. 
When you trust one another, they will conform and not 
break your trust. A man who distrusts others cannot ask 
others to do things for him.
I often speak on church growth. A reason many small 
churches do not grow is that the pastor cannot trust the 
elders or the deacons of his church. The pastor takes 
charge of all things related to the church. He delivers the 
sermons, he manages the finances, and he does all the 
office work. He works from early dawn until late at night 
and always has blood-shot eyes. He nearly works himself 
to death for the church, but it does not grow. It is because 
he can not trust others to work with him. He cannot bring 
himself to work with them because he does not trust them. 
He must delegate work to others and trust them. Until they 
make a mistake or abuse their responsibility, the pastor 
must trust them. When the pastor follows his elders or 
deacons around like some investigator, they won't be able 
to get any work done. Why? No one can work under such 
circumstances. If you don't trust others and let them work 
for you, you can't expect anything from anyone. Sixth, 
those who can not love their neighbors cause unhappiness 
for all. Such people cannot love anyone but themselves.
 I often tell everyone to respect their parents. If you do 
not, you will not be blessed but you will become ill. A 
young man came to me to be prayed for healing since he 
was very sick. He said, "Pastor Cho, what can I do? My 
father was a truly selfish man who had no thought for my 
mother and me. He ate out at restaurants without us, and he 
bought himself new clothes for every season. He was 
always concerned for himself while neglecting his family. 
I can't have loving thoughts for such a man as my father. 
What can I do?" It was a truly tragic situation. Although 
the young man tried to love his father sincerely, because of 
his father's selfishness and neglect it was a great obstacle 
for him to love his father.
 As we go through life, we must not consider others in 
terms of how much we can gain from them. We must love 
others for the very sake of love?not for some ulterior 
motive. "Hmm, I'm sure he will buy me lunch if I become 
his friend. Hmm, I'm sure he will pay for the green fees at 
country clubs if I am his friend. Hmm, I am sure he will 
pay for the travel expenses if I become his friend." When 
you think in terms of how much benefit you can expect 
from a friend, you will never have a true friend; none will 
stay with you for very long. After a person is taken 
advantage of once or twice, they will leave. We must love 
others for the sake of love itself and be happy to help them 
in need.
 A sister in Christ graduated from a very fine university, 
came to church diligently, prayed always, and was greatly 
blessed by God. However, she always felt some emptiness 
in her life. Something was missing. Then she became 
involved in this church's mission group and went abroad to 
do service. In a third-world country, she helped those 
living in poverty and hardship, helping them and 
witnessing to them. She felt such satisfaction and fullness 
on her way back to Korea and she said, "Although I have 
gone to church for so long, praying and receiving the 
fullness of the Holy Spirit, I have always felt some lack in 
my life. However, having given of myself in service to 
God, helping others and witnessing to those who truly 
need it, I feel so full and satisfied. I know now what I was 
lacking." It was a wonderful thing to hear.
 It is written in 1 Timothy 6:18-19, "Command them to 
do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous and 
willing to share. In this way they will lay up treasure for 
themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age, so that 
they may take hold of the life that is truly life." When you 
help others, you can find real joy. Loving others means we 
ought to help others. It is sharing their troubles?the 
burdens of our neighbors.
 It is written in Galatians 6:2, "Carry each other's burdens, 
and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ."
 It is written in Hebrews 6:10, "God is not unjust; he will 
not forget your work and the love you have shown him as 
you have helped his people and continue to help them." 
God does remember. God remembered the love and help 
of (Conelew )and saved her whole family; God 
remembered (Drugas) and his good deeds and sent Peter to 
save him when he was facing death. Our God always 
remembers our good deeds. When we do good deeds and 
love others with real and sincere love as we share their 
burdens, we will find ourselves becoming happy even as 
others also find happiness through us. However, when we 
use our neighbors for our benefit and only think of our 
own selfishness, we will bring misery to ourselves as well 
as to others.

 We must make sure we do not become legalists. We 
must not become self-righteous people. We must not 
become people who compare and judge. We must not 
become narrow-minded people. We must not become 
Christians without love. Even as you hear the message 
today, you may be thinking, "Today's message is for so 
and so, for my cell leader, for pastor so and so. Today's 
message is not for me." Well, this message is for none 
other than you! This message is for all of you. Even as I 
am delivering this message, I am convicted by it. We must 
all bare our souls and accept these words so that we can be 
changed and become like Christ. Today many people 
create their own unhappiness. They make themselves and 
their neighbors unhappy. Such deficiency in the 
personality of a person must be corrected through prayer 
and repentance; it requires effort. When you change, you 
help others change. Rather than trying to change others 
forcefully, you should change first.
 It is written in 1 John 3:21-23, "Dear friends, if our 
hearts do not condemn us, we have confidence before God 
and receive from him anything we ask, because we obey 
his commands and do what pleases him. And this is his 
command: to believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, 
and to love one another as he commanded us." Let us bow 
our heads and pray.

-Prayer-
Oh holy God of love, our lives are empty and meaningless 
without You. When we stand before You and Your laws, 
we are like those who are filled with filth and sin. Oh 
Father, change us and renew us through your Word and the 
Holy Spirit. Help us become righteous in Christ so that we 
can bring happiness to our husbands and wives, our 
families, our children and those around us. Let us be the 
ones who bring joy and happiness wherever we go. Let us 
not be the ones who bring misery and unhappiness. I pray 
in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.              


