Sunday, October 10th, 1999
Title : The God Who Calls Things That Are Not As Though They were
Scripture Reading: Romans 4:17-25


  Different opinions mostly cause married couples to have troubles. That means that 
married couples don't have one heart. If husbands and wives have totally different 
thoughts and minds, they always have disputes and troubles. In order for them to live 
and work together, they should agree with each other. In order for God and man to live 
and work together, man must submit himself to God's will. We don't dare to discuss 
with God to have common thoughts. Since God is the Creator and we are His creatures, 
we should know His will and obey Him. Man doesn't dare to object to God's will and 
work. Creatures must not ask their Creator, "What are you doing?" Therefore, we have 
to learn how to know God and should adjust ourselves to His work. We should know 
who God is, to work and live with Him.

  First, we have to understand that God is the God of miracles. God created heaven, 
earth and everything by miracle. By Word, He made heaven, earth, the sea, and 
everything in it. Though God made everything in nature and its principles, He isn't 
restricted by them. If necessary, He can perform supernatural miracles beyond the 
principles anytime.
  We read in Psalm 40:5, "Many, O Lord my God, are the wonders you have done. The 
things you planned for us no one can recount to you; were I to speak and tell of them, 
they would be too many to declare." He did such a lot of miracles.
  Psalm 97:9 states, "For you, O Lord, are the Most High over all the earth; you are 
exalted far above all gods." God is the Most High far above all gods. He is the great 
God Who gives life to the dead. You know we can't even think of raising the dead with 
our science and reason. We can cure diseases through medical care and medicine, but it 
is out of the question for man to give life to the dead. Man has never raised the dead in 
human history, but God has. God, Who made man with dust, can raise the one who has 
turned to dust by breathing the breath of life. That is the difference between God and us. 
That is completely beyond our reasoning and science. God gives life to the dead! Elijah, 
when a widow's son in Zarephath died of serious sickness, went, prayed for him, and 
raised him. Elisha gave the Shunammite woman a son according to the prophecy. Then 
when he died of sickness, Elisha raised him by praying. He testified that God is the God 
Who gives life to the dead.
  John 5:21 says, "Just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the 
Son gives life to whom He is pleased to give it." When the daughter of Jairus, the 
synagogue ruler, died, people were mourning and preparing for the funeral. Then Jesus 
got into the room with her parents, Peter, James and John, and He took her by the hand 
and said, "Daughter, get up! Talitha koum!" The dead girl arose! The Lord told his 
disciples to give her something to eat. The girl was about 12. The Lord did what man 
could never do. The son of a widow in a town called Nain died and was being carried 
out. His mother followed, crying, wailing and saying, "You, bad son. Why did you die 
earlier than I, leaving me alone?" Jesus saw her, had compassion on her, stopped the 
coffin and told people to open it. Then Jesus commanded, "Young man, get up!" The 
young man got out of the coffin as if he had awoken from sleeping, and he went back to 
his mother. Have you ever heard of this kind of incident? No one can do this but God. 
God is the God Who raises the dead! Moreover, the dead Lazarus had been in the tomb 
for four days and his body smelled rotten. Who dared to raise him? Even his sisters, 
Maria and Martha said, "Our dead brother smells terrible!" However, Jesus told them to 
open the tomb and said, "Lazarus, come out!" By His Word, Lazarus walked out 
wrapped with strips of linen. The Lord said, "Take off the grave clothes and let him go." 
These facts testified that Jesus is God. Since Jesus is God, Jesus continued to perform 
miracles in His life.
  Acts 2:22 reads, "Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, 
wonders and signs, which God did among you through Him, as you yourselves know." 
Likewise, no man has raised the dead in human history, but God has. Does the God 
Who gives life to the dead, have any trouble healing those who have cancer, arthritis, 
and those who are blind, deaf, crippled and limping? If we know God Who raises the 
dead, we can understand that He is able to do everything in our lives. Therefore, we 
have to understand God well. Someone says, "God worked before but not now." Then 
was God alive a long time ago but dead now? It is ridiculous, isn't it? Jehovah doesn't 
change and Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today and forever. Hence, the God Who 
gave life to the dead before works now for us with His authority and power.
  The Bible says, "Because of your little faith you can't see the work of God." If we 
clearly know God and walk with confident faith, even today He will do for us such 
miracles as raising the dead. Yet, we don't have to wait until we die. If cells die, they 
will become cancer. But the Lord will take the cancer away and give life. If the heart 
dies, He makes it work; The same is true with the lung and the brain. Therefore, we 
should know that God still performs miracles for us.

  Second, we must also know that God calls things that are not as if they were. People 
know that things that are not don't exist and things that are exist. So if we say things 
that are not exist, they think we lie.
  In my childhood, I liked dreaming in my heart. Once my cousins came to my father's 
orchard and I told them that I had seen an enormous tiger with very bright eyes in the 
mountain. I said that, thinking that there was a tiger in my imagination. Following me, 
my cousins went with bats into the mountain, where they found nothing. Then there 
spread a rumor that Cho Yonggi was a liar. My cousins said to me, "You are a liar. You 
told us that you saw a tiger, and we went to see it, yet we found nothing, not even a 
cat." Something I will always remember is my father, hearing about me, said, "Well, 
Yonggi is not a liar." My cousins asked him, "What do you mean?" Then my father 
answered, "Yonggi is a boy of dreams. He is not telling a lie. He sees a tiger in his 
imagination, so he can say that. Hence, it is not bad. The one of dreams will be able to 
do great things in the future." At that time I was deeply impressed at his interpretation. I 
realized that I was a boy of dreams and not a liar. Frankly speaking, I had thought I was 
a liar, but I was not right. I was the one of dreams! Sure enough, afterwards I believed 
in God and had many dreams. Dreams are necessary in order for us to put faith in God 
Who calls things that are not as if they were. God is the God of dreams. God called 
Abraham at 75 and told him what would happen to him in the future. He called things 
that were not as if they had been. God is the God of dreams and He showed Abraham 
His dream.
  Genesis 12:1-3 says, "The Lord had said to Abraham, 'Leave your country, your 
people and your father's household and go to the land I will show you. I will make you 
into a great nation and I will bless you; I will make your name great, and you will be a 
blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I will curse; and all 
peoples on earth will be blessed through you.'" This scripture is different from   reality, 
for it doesn't happen now. Abraham was 75 and a pastoral countryman, whom God told 
such a great dream. God called things that were not as if they had been. At the moment, 
that didn't take place to Abraham. Yet, God called things that were not as if they had 
been. God is the God of dreams. Abraham took His dreams and could leave in great 
hope. Look at the promise of God which was given to Abraham in Canaan.
  Genesis 13:14-16 reads, "The Lord said to Abram, 'Lift up your eyes from where you 
are and look north and south, east and west. All the land that you see I will give to you 
and your offspring forever. I will make your offspring like the dust of the earth, so that 
if anyone could count the dust, then your offspring could be counted.'" Abraham and his 
wife were old and they had no child, yet. However, God gave them hope saying, "Look 
north and south, east and west. All the land that you see I will give to you and your 
offspring forever. I will make your offspring like the dust of the earth." It sounds like a 
dream. Yet, since God is the God of dreams, He says such an imaginary dream.  Those 
who don't take God's dream can't work with Him. God told Abraham His dream. When 
Abraham accepted the dream, God could work through him. Although Abraham had no 
child, God told him that he would have children. What He said sounded ridiculous.
  Genesis 17:1-5 says, "When Abraham was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared 
to 
him and said, 'I am God Almighty; walk before me and be blameless. I will confirm my 
covenant between me and you and will greatly increase your numbers.' Abraham fell 
facedown, and God said to him, 'As for me, this is my covenant with you; you will be 
the father of many nations. No longer will you be called Abram; your name will be 
Abraham, for I have made you a father of many nations.' " It sounds unreasonable. For 
God said that the old man at 99 would beget a child through his wife at 89. God is the 
God of dreams so He says things that sounds like a dream. When Abraham at 99 heard 
God's voice, he became excited. He said to himself, "I'm 99 now and I will have a baby 
through my wife who is 89? So I will be Abraham, the father of many nations?"
  God called things that were not as if they had been. Only God Who dreams can say 
that. He says such things as dreams. Yet, that is the way by which God works. That's 
why we have to know God correctly. Jesus said to Peter, "You are Peter." In fact, his 
original name was Simon whose feelings changed often like a reed. But Jesus called 
him Peter, which means a rock. Jesus called him a rock though he was still changeable. 
Then people said, "You are ridiculous, for you call that man a rock. He often changes, 
crying, laughing, feeling good or bad, and accepting or denying You. You say that man 
is a rock? Please do not be so unreasonable." However, God is the God of dreams. He 
calls things that are not as if they were. Unless we are aware of this kind of character of 
God, we can't work with Him together. Would you please repeat after me? "God gives 
life to the dead and calls things that are not as if they were." That's why God's miracle is 
unlimited and He is the God of dreams, Who calls things that are not as if they were.
  Today, reading the word of God, unbelievers say that it is out of the question. Yet, 
that is the work our God does. God dreams beyond reality and with the dream He 
makes a new world.

  Third, in order for us to work with God, we have to prepare room in our hearts, 
where He can work. We should make special space for the God Who raises the dead and 
calls things that are not as though they were. With our worldly reason and knowledge, 
we can't work with God. Neither will God work with us. We have to make open space 
in our hearts in which God can enter and work. Then what sort of room should we 
make? We should have in our hearts room in which we accept miracles. We've been 
educated and trained to accept only logical and reasonable things. So there is no room 
for God in our minds. We think everything reasonably and logically and if we don't 
make it clear that way, we won't accept it. Since God is the God Who performs miracles 
beyond reason and logic, we have to make in our minds room where He can enter.
  The Bible says in Proverbs 4:23, "Above all else, guard your heart, for it is the 
wellspring of life." In our hearts should be made room with which we believe miracles. 
How is the room made? By studying the Bible, we can make room for miracles in our 
hearts beyond human reason and logic. Then God can enter the room. He won't get into 
our minds of reason and logic. You should make in your hearts room that you believe in 
the God of miracles Who gives life to the dead. Though you can't see, hear, nor feel 
anything, you have to make room of faith for God's miracles, so that He can work. It is 
written, "Without faith it is impossible to please God, because anyone who comes to 
Him must believe that He exists and that He rewards those who earnestly seek Him." 
Only when we make room for faith in miracles, can God dwell there. If we accept God 
with reason, science and logic, He has no place to work in us. Then what sort of room 
should we make? We have to make room of faith that God calls things that are not as 
though they were. We are educated only to believe things that are, but not things that 
are not. However, since God says things that are not as though they were, it is difficult 
to take His Word with our worldly thoughts. People may ask, "Why do you say things 
that are not as if they were?" But we have to make room for God that He may work, 
calling things that are not as though they were.
  In 1 Corinthians 2:9 we read, "As it is written: 'No eye has seen, no ear has heard, no 
mind has conceived what God has prepared for those who love Him." Since God has 
prepared beyond time and space something that we don't see, hear, nor conceive, we 
have to make room in our minds. You need to see, think and speak things that are not as 
if they were. You can do that only through dreams in your hearts. If God has dreams, we 
have to receive them and if He speaks such dreams we have to say the same thing. We 
have to receive dreams. We should have dreams. We should have room for dreams in 
our minds. You have to dream for the future. We Christians should dream in our hearts, 
looking to the cross, that is, we should have room for dreams.
  Looking to the cross where Jesus was crucified, shedding His blood, we should have 
dreams that we are forgiven and become righteous. Though we are sinners now, we 
have to dream that we are forgiven by the blood of Jesus and become righteous. We 
should have room for that dream. We have to dream that we look to the cross and the 
Holy Spirit and heaven are within us. We should have room for this dream in our hearts 
that the Holy Spirit and heaven can come into us. Looking to the cross, we have to 
dream that sorrow is gone and joy has come into us and all our diseases are healed and 
we are healthy. Though we are sick now, we have to dream that we are healed by His 
wounds. Only when we have room for dreams, can God enter and work in us. Though 
we are poverty stricken and famished now, looking to the cross we should have dreams 
that the Lord has rid our curses and poverty so now we are rich and prosperous in Him. 
People may say, "Don't be ridiculous." Yet, it is our dream. We should have dreams 
through the cross. Looking to the cross, we have to dream that for our sakes the Lord 
destroyed death and hell on the cross and granted us resurrection, eternal life and 
heaven. We should also have dreams that by believing in Jesus, we will be risen and 
heaven and eternal life are ours.
  We should have room for dreams, where we can think, see and speak things that are 
not as if they were. Those who have no room for dreams in their hearts will never work 
with God. He is only looking for those who have room for dreams. We need open space 
in our minds to experience things that are not as if they were, beyond our senses. That is 
room for dreams in our hearts where we can dream things that are not as if they were, 
then God will work in us. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph and Moses were all dreamers. 
Since Joshua and Caleb dreamed of the land flowing with milk and honey, they entered 
the land. But the Israelites didn't dream of that land, so they disobeyed God and they 
were abandoned by Him. I heard a testimony from Pastor Theo Wolmarans who came 
from the Republic of South Africa to attend the C.G.I. Conference this time. While he 
was preaching the gospel of God at an assembly, the Holy Spirit came upon him and 
said, "Here is a woman whose breasts have been cut off because of cancer. Now her 
breasts are revived." It is out of the question in reality. Her breasts were already cut off 
due to cancer, then how can it be made again? If people heard that, they would say, 
"The pastor is out of his mind." However, he who has room of dreams can say the 
revelation of God. We can't say His revelation with our rational and logical ways. Yet, 
the pastor accepted God's revelation and declared, "Now here is a woman whose breasts 
have been cut off, but God grants new breasts to her." Then he finished the assembly 
and forgot what he spoke. After a few months a couple visited him and said, "Pastor, at 
the assembly, you proclaimed that to a woman whose breasts were cut off because of 
cancer, God granted new breasts." Then the pastor thought of it off hand. "I am the 
woman," said the wife who visited him, "I had no breast after I had an operation due to 
cancer. But I took what you said and I believed it. Even though it sounded impossible, I 
dreamed that I had breasts and believed. Then my breasts were growing and I had 
beautiful breasts. I and my husband visited the surgeon who operated on my breasts and 
he said, 'Are you really the woman on whom I operated before?' I said, 'Yes, I am.' Then 
the doctor said, 'Really? I cut off both of your breasts and how did you have the 
beautiful breasts again?' He asked my husband, 'Do you mind if I touch your wife's 
breasts?' My husband allowed him and he pressed and touched all over my breasts and 
called in all the other doctors and told them, 'I removed this woman's breasts and she 
has new breasts now.' Then the doctors didn't believe him." Since the doctors were 
trained by theory and logic, they had no room of dreams in their minds.
  When God performed a miracle, they had no room to receive it. Even the surgeon 
who cut off the woman's breasts touched and saw the new breasts but didn't believe. 
Through that type of person, God can't do any miracle. You should have room of 
dreams. Why did God use Abraham greatly? Because he trusted the God Who calls 
things that are not as though they were and he walked with Him. Abraham believed 
miracles. That's why when his son, Isaac, was about 20 he was willing to take him for a 
burnt offering at Moriah. He built an altar, bound his son, laid him on the altar and took 
the knife to slay him. Why? Because he trusted the God Who gives life to the dead, he 
believed that God would raise his son even if he died.
  Therefore, Abraham was aware of God. The reason God loved Abraham was that he 
believed miracles and the God Who gives life to the dead. If God had not called out, 
"Do not lay a hand on the boy," he would have killed him. Then God must have raised 
his son. Abraham became a father of faith, for he put great faith in God that He would 
give life to his son even if he died. He also had faith in the God Who calls things that 
are not as though they were. Abraham looked like a dreamer. Though he was 99 and his 
wife was 89, he changed his name, Abram, to Abraham, the father of nations, and his 
wife's name, Sarai, to Sarah, the mother of nations. They called each other. In the 
evening, when Abraham was tending the sheep in the field, the wife called, "Abraham!" 
Then all the neighbors would hear that calling and say, "Abraham? He is the father of 
nations? She must be crazy. She is dreaming, for the old woman at 89 calls her old 
husband at 99 the father of nations. She is out of her mind." Abraham answered, "Oh, 
Sarah! I'm on my way!" Then the neighbors would say, "What? Sarah, the mother of 
nations? They are in the same boat. For the wife is dreaming and so is her husband." 
They spoke the same dreamlike thing, because God was the God Who dreamed and 
worked in only those who had dreams.
  Romans 4:19-22 says, "Without weakening in his faith, he faced the fact that his 
body
was as good as dead --- since he was about a hundred years old --- and that Sarah's 
womb was also dead. Yet he did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of 
God, but was strengthened in his faith and gave glory to God, being fully persuaded that 
God had power to do what He had promised. This is why 'it was credited to him as 
righteousness.'" Abraham was the man of dreams. That's why God did a great work 
through him and made him the father of faith, through whom all the people can be 
blessed. Abraham had the new room to receive miracles of God Who calls things that 
are not as if they were. Most of unbelievers and believers just live with logical, rational, 
sensible and experienced things. However, if we want to walk with God, we should 
have room for dreams in our hearts like Abraham, so that we can believe the miracle 
that God gives life to the dead and that we can see, speak and act things that are not as 
if they were.
  When we come under the cross of Jesus and look to it, we will experience five kinds 
of blessings: the grace of forgiveness and righteousness; the work of heaven and the 
Holy Spirit; joy and healing; prosperity and blessings; resurrection and eternal life and 
heaven. We have to accept them. How can we take them? We can't have them with our 
reason and knowledge, but with the room in our hearts. If we say we believe them, 
unbelievers may say, "You're dreaming." But no problem, for God can work in us when 
we are dreaming. For those who dream about something great and believe that God will 
make it come true by a miracle, He will work. We read in the Bible, "Dear, friend, I 
pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your 
soul is getting along well." This is God's dream. We should accept His dream. God has 
the dream that we may enjoy good health and that all may go well with us, even as our 
souls are getting along well. Yet, He performs miracles through those who have the 
same dream. Please, have dreams. Looking to Christ under the cross, have dreams with 
boldness. It is written, "Open wide your mouth, and I will fill it." It means that we 
should have a great dream and God will work in that.
  Why don't believers dream? Why don't they believe in God of miracles? We should 
trust the God who gives life to the dead. Where can we see miracles greater than that? 
God wants to do miracles for us even now. Have dreams of the God of miracles. Dream 
with God. Take in your hearts things that are not as if they were. Think as if they were, 
have faith, speak with your mouths, and pray. Then your prayer will move the throne in 
heaven. Abraham was an old country man. He was not educated. He just knew the sun, 
the field and the flock. That country man was 75 and he almost came to the end of his 
life. Yet, through him God gave offsprings as many as stars in the sky and sands on the 
earth, and through him, Jesus was born. So he became the father of faith for all mankind 
and deserved to be praised, not because he learned a lot, had much knowledge, or 
because he was a moralist, but because he just walked with God. He believed the God 
of miracles Who gives life to the dead and Who calls things that are not as if they were. 
He believed miracles and dreamed with God. He had in his heart room for miracles and 
of receiving the God of dreams. That's why he became a great man that God could use.
  Today, among you who are listening to my sermon, there are many who will do great 
things that we can't imagine. Your lives will be even greater than now. When you accept 
the dream of God Who gives life to the dead and Who calls things that are not as if they 
were, and when you walk with Him, He will lead you to live in the new world of 
creation much more greatly tomorrow than today, next month than this month, next year 
than this year. 


-Prayer-
Our Father, God of great love and holiness. Many people say with their lips, "Lord, 
Lord," but they don't walk with Him. As an old country man, Abraham, walked with 
God and became the great father of faith, so help us have room in our hearts to accept 
the God Who gives life to the dead and calls things that are not as if they were. Our 
Father, God. Those who walk with You should believe miracles and dream things that 
are not as though they were. Please, help us accept the redemption of Christ on the cross, 
have dreams and receive all Your grace so that we may own the fivefold gospel and the 
threefold blessings. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
