1999.10.31
Title : Do not Make Light of the Lord's Discipline
Scripture Reading : Heb 12:5-13

These days parents do not lift the stick when they discipline their 
children. When the teachers at school levy corporal punishment, 
parents come to school to protest; at times students themselves 
call the police on their cell phones. Today, homes cater to the 
spoilt children and even schools have abandoned discipline 
becoming an institution which only delivers dates and facts. 
Many young men and women today are undisciplined, have no 
regard for authority, materialistic pleasure seekers who have 
become an epitemyof selfishness.In the past when we were 
growing up, rebelling against our parents was answered with 
lashes on our calves which brought blood to our legs. As a result, 
we had fear and respect for our parents and teachers. The fact 
that rebelling against the rules and teachers brought pain and 
suffering was deeply implanted in us, making us careful in both 
actions and words. Regardless of age, when a wrongful deed is 
answered with punishment, there is repentance. And they resolve 
not to make the same mistake again. When we believe in Christ 
and become God's children, He desires us to grow in His faith. 
As such, as we grow, God definitely punishes those who do not 
obey but rebel against God's will. Why do we need God's 
disciplinary action as we grow in Christ? For us to respect and 
obey His instructions, God must also discipline us. If God did not 
discipline even when we opposed him once or twice, we will no 
longer fear God and do as we desire, to finally find ourselves in 
the trap which Satan lays out for us, leading us to the eternal 
damnation. That is why, in order for us to respect and keep His 
instructions, God disciplines us. It is written in Hebrews 6:7-8, 
"Land that drinks in the rain often falling on it and that produces 
a crop useful to those for whom it is farmed receives the blessing 
of God. But land that produces thorns and thistles is worthless 
and is in danger of being cursed. In the end it will be burned." If 
our faith lives do not bear any fruit but only thorns and thistles, 
will God let us be? The result would be an eternal curse, of 
course, God will discipline us. God disciplines us because He 
wants us to grow in our faith. Rather than being spoilt Christian 
babies, He desires us to possess godly characters through 
discipline. He helps to have temperate characters. What would 
happen if we were to always remain as self-indulgent children? 
Our maturity in our faith lives requires instructions and 
discipline; if not, if God let's us be, even though we may have 
accepted Christ ten or twenty years ago, we will become 
unfearing and self-indulgent Christians.  
It is written in Ephesians 4:14-15, "Then we will no longer be 
infants, tossed back and forth by the waves, and blown here and 
there by every wind of teaching and y the cunning and craftiness 
of men in their deceitful scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in 
love, we will in all thins grow up into him who is the Head, that 
is, Christ." For us to shed our child-like characters, we need 
lessons and discipline. Moreover, we are disciplined because we 
are not some foster children of God. Parents discipline their real 
children, but who can really discipline the foster children? When 
God disciplines you, it is because you are His real children. It is 
important to realize this. It is written in Hebrews 12:5-6, "ˇ¦My 
son, do not make light of the Lord's discipline, and do not lose 
heart when he rebukes you, because the Lord disciplines those he 
loves, and he punishes everyone he accepts as a son." When a 
person is punished with a stick by his parents, he repents as he 
cries and becomes a new person. Although I am past 60, I 
remember well being punished by my father with a stick when I 
was a boy. Although I have forgotten many things, my father's 
lashes have remained with me. Those lashes become imprinted in 
a person. These days, if children do not receive the lashes but 
parents continue to divert them with words and words of 
leniency, they will someday be beyond control. We discipline so 
that our children can bare the fruits of righteousness. Rather than 
being in sin, unrighteousness, filth and despair, discipline is 
necessary for them to bare the fruits of peace and righteousness. 
Through discipline, they will repent and walk on the path of 
righteousness which brings peace in mind and in life. 
A young man killed as he was robbing a man and he received the 
death sentence, waiting in death row for his execution. One day, 
his mother visited him. As the young man, with tears in his eyes, 
looked through the bars, his mother beat her chest and wailed. He 
then asked to hold her hand. When the mother extended her hand 
between the bars, he grabbed her hand, brought it to his mouth 
and biting hard on her finger, bit it off of her hand. As blood 
pour from her severed finger, she looked on with complete shock. 
"Why did you do such horrid thing?" He said, "Mother, when I 
in my youth stole my friend's things you laughed at my bravery. 
If you had beaten and disciplined me, I would not have killed a 
man. Your smile and laughter, and even words of encouragement 
at times as I stole things from our neighbors have now put be 
behind bars on death row. You are the one who killed me." Yes, 
these are frightening words. It is said, "A pencilcase thief 
becomes a car thief in adulthood." You must discipline the 
pencilcase thief so that he can repent and walk the peaceful, 
righteous life full of joy. It is written in Proverbs 3:1-2, "My son, 
do not forget my teaching, but keep my commands in your heart, 
for they will prolong your life many years and ring you 
prosperity." When I look back on my life, I truly respect my 
parents and teachers who had disciplined me firmly. We should 
not respect parents or teachers who always have words of 
kindness and praise for everything we do and neglect to pick up 
the stick when we ought to be disciplined. Whenever I have a 
chance to stand in front of foreigners to deliver a sermon, there is 
one teacher I am thankful to. In middle school, he was my 
english teacher, Mr. Concord. He always emphasized I needed to 
use the proper verb tenses and he would always come to class 
with a big stick.With that big stick, he would hit the students 
who did not come with their homeworks. I have known the pain 
many times. All the students used to hope perhaps he would be 
involved in some tragic accident or become too ill to come to 
school and release us from his tyranny. Although he was such a 
disciplinarian, with passage of time, I realize I owe much of my 
ability to speak English to that teacher. Because I was terrified of 
his lashes, I used to spend the night studying and memorizing 
English vocabulary. He provided me with the foundation to be 
able to speak the language. Today, I truly respect that teacher. 
There was another teacher who the students loved at the time, 
truly truly loved. No matter what we did, he would tell us, "very 
good, very good, very good, very good". His very nickname used 
to be Teacher Very Good Indeed. Although he was the most 
loved teacher at the time, I have no idea what he taught. 
Discipline is a sign of love. People only discipline those they 
love. Who disciplines the foster children? People discipline their 
own children. Don't be too proud that God has not disciplined 
you. God disciplines all who He has taken as His children. When 
God disciplines us, it may entail our passing through the spiritual 
darkness of the night. As the work of the Holy Spirit no longer 
manifests in us, we may feel a great frustration in our lives and 
feel we have been abandoned to be cursed. King Saul, as he 
disobeyed God during the war with Amalekites, the Spirit of God 
departed from him, to annoint David. Then, as the evil spirit 
hounded Saul, he suffered incredible pain and suffering. Saul 
received God's fearful discipline. If Saul had repented and 
returned to God, He would have gladly accepted Saul. However, 
Saul did not and was cast aside. When David committed a grave 
sin with Bathsheba and was accused by Nathan, he quickly 
repented his sin. However, God told him, although he has been 
forgiven, he has opened himself to the slander of Satan. As such, 
David was never able to escape completely from God's 
discipline. It is written in Psalm 51:9-12, "Hide your face from 
my sins and lot out all my iniquity. Create in me a pure heart, O 
God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Do not cast me from 
your presence or take your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me 
the joy of your salvation and grant me a willing spirit, to sustain 
me." When God discplines us spiritually, the Spirit of God 
departs from us. We find ourselves unable to pray. We feel pain 
and frustration in our hearts. It is difficult to repent. God does at 
times discipline us in this way. At times, God disciplines us 
through physical suffering. Although not all illnesses are from 
God, many suffer ills because God is disciplining them for some 
sins they had committed. It is written in James 5:15-16, "And the 
prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well; the Lord 
will raise him up. If he has sinned, he will be forgiven. Therefore 
confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that 
you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful 
and effective." Why does God tell us to repent? When we 
commit sins and rebel against God, he disciplines us by making 
us ill. At such times, we ought not simply ask God to heal us, but 
we must repent first and come to God having abandoned our 
sinful ways to be healed by God. At times, God disciplines us 
through our circumstances. There are disciplines which affect our 
families and our businesses. Look at Jonah. God told Johan to go 
to the capital city, Nineveh, and proclaim God's message; 
however, Jonah tried to escape to Darsis and he lay under the 
deck of the ship to keep from hearing the voice of God. As such, 
God caused a great storm to toss the ship about. When we do not 
listen to God when He speaks, our circumstances, at home, or at 
our workplaces will reflect God's discipline. Jonah suffered in 
the stomach of a great fish as a result. God can lift his rod of 
discipline and affect our physical bodies, our spirituality and our 
circumstances. When we are disciplined by God, we can realize 
what we are being disciplined for. I am sure there are none who 
do not know why they are being disciplined. Because we rebel 
and disobey God, we are disciplined, disciplined and disciplined; 
we can realize this. The Spirit of God makes us realize this. 
"Watch out. You will be punished. Watch out." Then all of 
sudden we can feel His rod. It is like our mothers saying, "Your 
father will not be happy. Your father will not be patient." Then, 
if we continue to disobey our mothers' warnings, then one day, 
our fathers lift their rods and find us. The Holy Spirit warns us 
amply. "Repent, turn away from your sin. God will not be patient 
forever." However, when we continue to turn our deaf ears and 
do as we will, we will be disciplined. "I can get away with this 
much. This much is alright." Then, one day, you will suffer. 
When God is angered, He strikes with great force. God does not 
strike to tickle you. He does so to put you in pain. You will see 
blood. He makes sure you do not forget. He disciplines so that 
you will have a great fear of ever going against His will again. 
As such, we must try to avoid the discipline and accept the 
warning of the Holy Spirit wholeheartedly. And if we are 
disciplined, we must change our ways. Then, what must we do 
when we are disciplined? First, we must repent with tears. A lip-
service repenting will serve no purpose. You must beat your 
chest and repent in tears. It is written in Isaiah 57:15, "For this is 
what the high and lofty One says ? he who lives forever, whose 
name isholy: 'I live in a high and holy place, but also with him 
who is contrite and lowly in spirit, to revive the spirit of the 
lowly and to revive the heart of the contrite.'" You must be 
contrite. You must beat your chest and repent in tears of your 
wrongdoings. "O God, I have sinned. Forgive me of my sins." 
Repent, only when you repent, God will revive your heart. It is 
written in 1 John 1:9, "If we confess our sins, he is faihful and 
jus and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all 
unrighteousness." Second, when we are disciplined, we must fear 
God and respect Him. When we act impudently, it is a sign of 
our disrespect. When we are disciplined by God, we must have 
fear of God. Although today's children do not do so, when I was 
young, we used to called our fathers, the enforcers, and our 
mothers, the soothers. While our mothers were merciful and 
loving, our fathers were fearsome. Fathers were the rulers of 
their households. His hand was always ready for disciplinary 
action. Children who were raised under such fathers feared and 
respected them while they grew righteous in the loving embrace 
of their mothers. Our lives of faith in Jesus Christ is not always 
only filled with love, mercy and patience. If it were, we would 
become proud and arrogant. Our lives are also filled with God's 
instruction and discipline. When we are disciplined by God, we 
must have a fear of God as we worship Him. We must not only 
have faith in Him, we must also realize that it is the fear of our 
God which transform us. It is written in Ephesians 2:19, "'Your 
wickedness will punish you; your backsliding will rebuke you. 
Consider then and realize how evil and bitter it is for you when 
you forsake the LORD your God and have no awe of me,' 
declares the Lord, the LORD Almighty." When we take light of 
God's discipline, that is sin in itself. Many of us today do not 
view God in serious fear. Because there has been an over-
emphasis on His loving nature as we witnessed to others, some 
people think of Him as toothless grandfather whom   we can take 
advantage of. As we forget His fearful nature, His punishing 
nature and His disciplining nature, and not fear doing as we will, 
God will lift His rod of discipline and correct us. Third, when we 
are disciplined, we must crush our egos and obey completely. It 
is written in Psalm 123:1-2, "I lift up my eyes to you, to you 
whose throne is in heaven. As the eyes of slaves look to the hand 
of their master, as the eyes of a maid look to the hand of her 
mistress, so our eyes look to the LORD our God, till he shows us 
his mercy." Once completely shattered by God, we must repent 
and say, "O God, my past, present, and the future belongs to you. 
I am nothing. I am no longer in control even to control what is 
good or bad. I am Your servant. I am nothing more than your 
servant, a labor-hand. Use me as your servant." Such  self 
abasement, the destruction of the ego must take place before God. 
Fourth, when we are disciplined by God, we must turn 
completely away from the our wrong, our sin, and live 
righteously. Regret and repentance are not the same. Regret only 
grieves for having been discovered. A regretful man will again 
commit the sin when he has a chance. On the other hand, 
repentance means a complete change, a complete surrender to 
God  as he admits his sin. A thief will turn his way and stop 
stealing. An adulterer will stop seeing othres. A murderer will 
stop killing others. As such, we must not confuse the difference 
between regretting and repenting. We need to beat our chests for 
repentance. When my father came to me at young age and said, 
"Did you do this?" I would automatically think, "Mother told on 
me." Rather than repenting, I would go to my mother and accuse 
her, "You told dad, didn't you?" Why do children instead of 
repenting their wrongdoings, go and accuse their mothers of 
telling on them? I used to think I was the only one to do so, but 
after I had my children, whenever I scolded them, "Why do you 
do these things?" They would always answer back, "Did mother 
tell you?" Instead of repenting, they would give an excuse or 
they would regret being found out. This is a serious problem. 
When we are disciplined by God, we should say, "I shouldn't 
have done that. I am sorry God. I committed such a vile sin. I 
will not do it again. I deserve to be punished. Oh Father, I will 
turn away from sin for I fear You. I will turn around and live a 
new life." You must have a real repentance. Fifth, when you are 
disciplined, you must not despair or self-pity. When God's 
discipline manifests bringing trouble at home and at work, and 
your body becomes diseased, it is easy to think, "I have been 
abandoned by God. I have no use for faith in God. I am an 
orphan." Such will only make a person have self-pity and prevent 
him from repenting and being forgiven, but make him take a 
backward step in his growth. It is written in Hebrews 12:12-13, 
"Therefore, strengthen your feeble arms and weak knees. 'Make 
level paths for your feet,' so that the lame may not e disabled, but 
rather healed." Rather than grumbling against God's discipline, a 
person must accept it and become a new person, and decide to 
live like one. Sixth, we must thank God for disciplining us in 
love. You must realize that it is a blessing in disguise. When 
parents displine, the children must thank their parents. Parents 
discipline them for their own good, not to ruin them. God 
disciplines us so that we turn our backs to sin and don't get 
caught in Satan's traps, so that we can be blessed and go to 
Heaven; He doesn't discipline us to torture us. Although you 
may be in tears of pain and suffering due to God's discipline, you 
must thank Him for it. "Oh God, because of my weakness I was 
not able to resist and turn away from sin, but I thank you from 
my heart for disciplining me." Before you were disciplined, you 
lived in sin, but afterwards, you can live righteously. Isn't this 
wonderful? Everyone must be disciplined. Without it, everyone 
will be ruined. I have seen many Christians down through  my 41 
years of ministry. After being disciplined, they live righteously. 
Before it, they are self-indulgent breaking many rules, but one 
they are struck, they repent and live righteously. We must thank 
our God Who disciplines. It is written in Psalm 30:4-5, "Sing to 
the Lord, you saints of his; praise his holy name. For his anger 
lasts only a moment, but his favor lasts a lifetime; weeping may 
remain for a night, but rejoicing comes in the morning." 
Although we may cry in the night as we are disciplined, the 
change, the morning brings a new rejoicing. It is written in Hosea 
6:1, "Come, let us return to the Lord. He has torn us to pieces but 
he will heal us; he has injured us but he will bind up our 
wounds." God tears us so that we will repent. He injures us so 
that we will repent. When we repent, he heals us and binds us up. 
Seventh, when we are disciplined, our lives must change. God 
strikes us because He desires some change in us. Although the 
Word of God and the Holy Spirit do change us, God's discipline 
brings about the greatest change. God, in order to change us, 
gives us His Word and sends us the Holy Spirit; however, at 
times He also strikes and disciplines us. Raising our children is 
the same. We use words and love to teach them a lesson, but at 
times we need to raise our rods. Children under strict parents 
later have filial piety. Children who are only loved and become 
self-indulgent ca neglect their parents later. What surprises me 
very much are those members of our church who have come to 
Seoul from the country and not being educated, they work in 
factories or at labor-intensive jobs. Yet, every month, they send 
back money to their parents, and on that of that, when Chusok 
comes, they come to me and ask me to pray for their parents who 
lead hard lives back home. As I pray for them, many of them 
shed tears and pray for God's forgiveness for not being able to 
make their parent's lives better. When they were growing up, 
they were not pampered or showered with praises and love, yet 
their sense of filial piety was truly wonderful. Remember the 
case of a young man whose father supported his education 
abroad indulging him in all his desires, then came back to Korea 
and killed his father with an axe because his father wouldn't give 
him the family fortune. You must never over-indulge your 
children. When he does wrong, he must be disciplined. Today, in 
our school system, if the students refuse to study in class, 
teachers must be able to raise their rods. That will teach them. If 
such disciplinary action brought the parents to school to accuse 
the teachers or the students called the police on their cell phones, 
what teacher woul discipline the children? Such children will 
never learn. There must be a profound change. It is written in 
Romans 12:2, "Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this 
world, but e transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then 
you will be able to test and approve what God's will is ? his 
good, pleasing and perfect will." It is written in Ephesians 5:15-
16, "Be very careful, then, how you live ? not as unwise but as 
wise, making the most of every opportunity, because the days are 
evil." Being profoundly changed, we must stand righteous in 
front of God. Discipline is terrible and painful. People at times 
make a mistake of resenting God when they are disciplined. 
However, in order for you to grow as a child of God, you must 
be taught and disciplined by God. Even as we cry from the 
extreme severity of the discipline, we must thank God for not 
considering us to be some foster children, but  His real children 
who will inherit the world. With such thanks in mind, we must 
try our best to live in obedience to God." It is written in Proverbs 
3:7-11, "Do not be wise in your own eyes; fear the Lord and 
shun evil. This will bring health to your body and nourishment to 
your bones. Honor the Lord with your wealth, with the firstfruits 
of all your crops; then your barns will be filled to overflowing, 
and your vats will brim over with new wine. My son, do not 
despise the Lord's discipline and do not resent his rebuke." If 
you resent His discipline, or His words of waring, you will learn 
what it means to obey. You must always remember, that God 
disciplines because He desires to see everyone enjoy life of 
blessing even as their spirits are made well and that after life well 
lived, enter into the Kingdom of God. Although disciplines are 
difficult at first, as we change are ways and become receptive to 
God's teachings, we will experience the fruit of the 

Spirit grow in us. 
Let us bow our heads and pray. O Holy God of abundant love, 
we know that You find it necessary to discipline us sometimes. 
We thank you for disciplining us and teaching us your lessons so 
that we may turn our ways and live righteously according to your 
will. Just as little children learn to fear and respect their parents 
when they are disciplined with rods, we have fear and respect for 
You and Your laws. O God who has shown us so much love, we 
thank you for your discipline which are meeted out in hopes of 
changing us. God, if there are anyone here today who is current 
being disciplined, help him to repent and return to you, being 
changed and changing him. Help us so that we can feel the 
discipline down to our bones so that we do not forget to avoid the 
way of the wicked as we have walked before. I pray all these 
thins in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

   






 
