Sunday, March 14th 1999
Title : To Overcome Stress
Scripture Reading : 1 King 19:1-8

  The contemporary  life is  full of   stress, for we  are 
pressured by too  much work to   do in too  little time, 
compared to a relaxed agricultural life.  This is why we 
are constantly under stress--small or big. When we are 
exposed to stress too long  or when  we are  under too 
heavy stress, we are likely to fall apart. It will cause us 
to become  cruel and unbalanced. It will also cause  bad 
human relations, broken homes and  various diseases.
  First Kings Chapter  19 speaks of  Elijah's depression 
because of stress. Ahab, the king of Israel, and his wife 
Jezebel deserted   God Jehovah   and worshiped  foreign 
gods  Baal  and Asherah  that Jezebel  had brought  to 
Israel. They   led all  of  Israel to   commit the  sin  of 
worshipping idols.  Elijah became  furious  about it  and 
prayed to God. God  heard him  and didn't give rain to 
Israel for  three and  a  half  years.  After that,  Elijah 
confronted  the   400 prophets   of  Baal   and the   450 
prophets of Asherah  on Mt. Carmel.   They decided to 
test which  god is  the true   god: the God  Jehovah or 
Baal. They built two altars, killed calves, cut the  calves 
into pieces but did  not put fire on  them. They decided 
to  recognize  the  god  who  would   answer them   by 
sending fire from heaven as the true God. The prophets 
of Baal prayed  all day long  but there was  no answer.  
However, when  Elijah  prayed, God  Jehovah  answered 
him by sending fire instantly.  As a result,  all of Israel 
recognized God   Jehovah as  the true   God and  Elijah 
killed the  450 prophets  of Baal   at Gishon. After  that 
Elijah earnestly prayed  for rain  and God  gave rain to 
Israel.
  While doing such a wonderful work, Elijah was under 
heavy stress.  He came  back   into the  city and  was 
threatened by Jezebel. She sent a messenger to Elijah to 
say,  "May   the gods  deal  with me,   be it  ever  so 
severely, if by this time  tomorrow I do not  make your 
life like that of one of them." 

  Although Elijah was a great prophet of God, when he 
heard this, he could not  overcome stress any more and 
collapsed. He was afraid  and ran for his  life. When he 
came to Beersheba  in Judah, he  left his servant  there, 
while he himself went  a day's journey  into the desert. 
He came to a broom tree, sat down under it and prayed 
that he might die.  "I have had  enough, Lord," he  said. 
"Take my  life; I  am  no better  than my   ancestors." 
Elijah was completely stressed out. Although Elijah was 
a great   prophet  to  whom  God  had answered   and 
received fire  from heaven,  he was  stressed, depressed 
and  frustrated.  Once  we  are  stressed,  we  will  act 
abnormally and   become ill.   We are  exposed  to  and 
surrounded by   various stress.   Nonetheless, we   must 
overcome stress.

  First, to  overcome stress,   we should not  carry  the 
burden of stress alone. We must share  it with someone 
else. However, we  cannot just  share it  with anybody. 
To overcome   stress, we  must  consult with   someone 
who can help us, without hurting our   pride. It is good 
to share the burden of stress with  close friends. It is a 
blessing to  have  a good  friend. When  we share  the 
burdens  of  stress  with  a  good  friend,  we   can be 
restored and   refreshed. Or,  we can   go to  a teacher 
whom we respect and  let out  our  burdens. Christians 
can go  to their  pastors and  share their  burdens with 
them. I  have had  many consultations  in my  ministry. 
Many people come just to talk to me instead of seeking 
some wisdom or knowledge. What  I have to do  is just 
sit and listen.    Sometimes, it is  very hard to sit and 
listen. It is harder to listen than  to speak.  They speak 
for half an  hour, an hour,  or even hours,  which gives 
me stress. However,  after letting down  the burdens of 
stress, they feel refreshed.  When we are  refreshed, the 
medicinal system   in our  bodies  begin to   work. The 
Bible says, "A cheerful  heart  is good  medicine, but a 
crushed spirit dries up the bones."

  When we  release the  stress in  our  hearts, we  feel 
refreshed, and  then the  medicinal  system  works and 
heals all the stress. When we  repress stress within our 
hearts, it will bring  illness. I read in  a medical journal 
that those who  easily lose their  tempers due to  stress 
are at higher risks of getting cardiac diseases and those 
who do not  let stress  out but  dwell with it  are at  a 
higher risk of getting cancer. When stress  explodes, we 
will have a  cardiac disease.  When stress  is repressed, 
on the other hand, we  will have a cancer. Neither  way 
is good.  However,  when we  go  to a  good  friend, a 
teacher or  a pastor   and share the   burdens of stress 
with them, we will be refreshed and positive.  It is very 
bad  to  be  negative,  since  it  causes  our  bodies  to 
produce bad  hormones and,  thus, destroys  us. On  the 
other  hand,   when  we   are  positive,   we  will   feel   
refreshed and joyous. Then our  body system will work 
properly  and  heal  ourselves   and we   can  overcome 
stress.

  Second, to  overcome stress,  we  must pray  to God. 
Peter denied Jesus  three times.    He must have  been 
tormented by  the guilty  sense  in his  conscience and, 
thus, under   heavy stress.  After  denying Jesus  three 
times, he could not stand himself.  He cried and became 
hysterical, restless and almost desolate.  He gave up his 
mission as a disciple and went  fishing. He got into the 
boat, but that  night they  caught nothing. Early  in the 
morning, Jesus stood  on the  shore and   called out to 
them,  "Friends,  haven't  you   any fish?"   "No,"  they 
answered. He said, "Throw your   net on the right side 
of the boat." When  they did, they were  unable to haul 
the net in  because of  the large  number of fish.  Then 
John said to Peter,  "It is the  Lord!" As soon  as Peter 
heard that, he jumped into  the water although he could 
have sailed to the shore. He couldn't dare face His face 
under normal circumstances and jumped  into the water. 
He  went  to  Jesus  shiveringly.  Jesus  set  a  fire  of 
burning coals there with fish on it  and some bread.  

  When they had  finished eating,  Jesus said  to Peter, 
"Do you truly love me more than   these?" He used the 
Greek word "agape"  here and  asked Peter  whether he 
could give his life  for Him. "Yes,  Lord," he said,  "you 
know that I love you." He used the Greek word "phileo" 
and  meant that he loved Jesus as  a friend. Jesus said, 
"Feed my lambs." Again Jesus said, "Peter, do you truly 
love(agape) me  more than  these? You  said you   were 
going to go  to prison  with me and  die with  me." He 
answered, "Yes,  Lord,  you  know  that  I love(phileo) 
you," meaning  that he  loved Jesus  as a  friend. Jesus 
said, "Take  care of  my sheep."  The third  time Jesus 
said to   him, "Peter,  do  you  love(phileo) me?"   Jesus 
asked him if he loved  Him as a friend this  time. Peter 
was hurt   and lost  confidence.  He  had said   that he 
would go  to prison  with Him  and die   with Him but 
denied Him three times  even  with a  curse. That was 
why Peter   could only  say that   he loved  Him  as a 
friend. This time,  Jesus was   asking him  whether he 
loved Him as a  friend. Losing all  his confidence, Peter 
replied, "Lord,  you know   all things; I   don't  know." 
When he  gave it   up, Jesus said,   "Follow me." Peter 
came out  of a  dark  emotional   pit. He was  released 
from deep stress.

  When we try to  carry our burdens by  ourselves, we 
can't overcome  stress. When  we commit  ourselves to 
the Lord  and follow  Him,  however, we  can be  freed 
from heavy    burdens. We   must come to   the Lord, 
confess all   our weaknesses  and  break ourselves.   As 
long as we are proud and arrogant, justifying ourselves, 
we can't come out of  stress. We must break  ourselves 
and submit ourselves  to the  Lord. When  we seek the 
Lord with humility, our Lord  will accept us and tell  us 
to follow Him.

  We  must   seek help   from  the   Lord,  too.  Isaiah 
40:27-31 says, "Why do you say, O Jacob, and complain, 
O Israel, 'My way  is hidden from  the Lord; my cause 
is disregarded by my  God'? Do you  not  know? Have 
you not  heard? The  Lord is  the everlasting  God, the 
Creator of the ends of the earth. He will not grow tired 
or weary, and His understanding no one can fathom. He 
gives strength to the weary and increases the  power of 
the weak.   Even youths   grow tired   and weary,  and 
young men stumble and fall; but those who hope in  the 
Lord will renew their strength. They will soar on wings 
like eagles; they will run and not grow weary, they will 
walk and not  be faint."  Therefore, let us  come to  the 
Lord, break ourselves  and wait   upon Him.  Then the 
power and  grace of   the  Lord will  come to   us and 
release us  from stress.  When I  am extremely  tired, I 
don't go to sleep directly. I always bow down and pray 
to God.  When I  am too weak to  pray, I silently wait 
on the Lord. When I wait upon the Lord for an hour or 
so, the power of the  Lord comes upon me,  lifts all the 
burdens from   my soul  and  body, and   refreshes me. 
Then I climb  into bed and  go to  sleep. When I  wake 
the morning after,  my strength  is renewed. I  feel like 
soaring on wings  like eagles; I won't grow weary  and 
won't be  faint. The  Lord will   renew the strength  of 
those who hope in Him. Therefore, we must commit our 
lives to God and pray to  Him, leaving all  the burdens 
of the past, present and future to Him.

  Matthew 11:28 says,  "Come to  me, all you  who are 
weary and  burdened,  and I  will  give you  rest."  Our 
Lord promises that He will take care of us and  give us 
rest. 1 Peter  5:7 says,  "Cast all  your anxiety on  Him 
because He cares  for you."  The Lord   will  help  us. 
When we leave  all our  cares to Him  and  wait  upon 
Him, He  will  give  us surpassing  peace and  help us 
overcome stress.

  Third, to overcome  stress, we  must come to  church 
and listen to the word.  I know many people who  came 
to church  and  were delivered  from  stress, frustration 
and distress. A man  lost his business and  was heavily 
in debt. Since he could not  overcome stress, he wanted 
to kill himself.  He drove  his car  toward an  oncoming 
bus but   the bus   driver evaded   his car.  Then   he 
crossed the center  line to  collide with another car  but 
other cars also evaded his  car. When he went  under a 
bridge, he wished the bridge would collapse on  him. He 
didn't have any desire  to live. He  met a friend  of his 
and he said, "Don't try to kill yourself  but come to my 
church--Yoido Full   Gospel Church."  He  followed  his 
friend to church. He  had never attended  church before. 
He sat on a  pew and listened  to the sermon, thinking, 
"I will find out  what the pastor  does to collect  money 
from people." While he  was listening, the word  of God 
came into his heart and changed him. He gave up all of 
his wrong thoughts. He  cried and repented of  his sins. 
He was born again. He  decided to give his life  to God 
and  seek  His   kingdom and   His  righteousness.   He 
restarted  his   business  and   succeeded  in   his  new 
business. He has been blessed so much that  he gives a 
large sum of tithes to church.

  Psalm 20:1-4 says, "May  the Lord answer you  when 
you are in distress; may the  name of the God of Jacob 
protect you. May He send  you help from the sanctuary 
and grant you support from Zion. May He remember all 
your sacrifices and accept your burnt offerings. May He 
give you  the desire  of your  heart and  make all  your 
plans succeed."  Therefore,  when we   come to  church, 
wait  upon  the  Lord,  and  listen   to the   word, God 
cherishes and takes delight in us.

  The Bible  says,  "'Because he   loves me,'  says the 
Lord, 'I   will rescue  him; I   will protect  him, for   he 
acknowledges my  name. He  will call  upon me,  and I 
will answer him;  I will be  with him  in trouble, I  will 
deliver him and honor him.'" The word of God is living 
and active:   sharper than  any double-edged   sword, it 
penetrates even  to dividing  soul and  spirit, joints  and 
marrow. When   we come  to  church,  the Holy   Spirit 
comes to our  hearts through  the word, penetrates  into 
us  and   removes  stress.   The  Spirit   will  give  us 
overflowing peace, too.  Then we  will become  positive, 
rejoicing always, praying   without ceasing,  and giving 
thanks  to   God under   all  circumstances.   When we 
become  positive,   the immune  system of   our bodies 
work well and we will be  in good health.  It   is said 
that 70 to 80 percent of man's thought is negative with 
fear by  instinct.  About   70 to 80   percent, we don't 
think or  speak  positively, being  rather  afraid without 
peace. To remove negativeness from our  lives, we need 
to  come  to  church  and  worship  God.  We  need  to 
remove negative   thoughts through  the word   and the 
Spirit. We must   accept positive, creative  and peaceful 
thoughts. Then God will   pour His grace  upon us and 
deliver us from stress.

  Fourth, to overcome  stress, we  need to  take a  rest 
regularly. God worked  for six  days and rested  on the 
seventh day.  Genesis 2:3  says, "And  God blessed  the 
seventh day and made it  holy, because on it He  rested 
from all the work of  creating that He had done."  Since 
God Himself rested, it  is very important for  us to rest 
from our   work,  worshipping God and  spending time 
with our  families  on the  seventh  day. Jesus  Himself 
took His disciples  and took a  rest. He sometimes  took 
His disciples to the desert or withdrew to  the region of 
Tyre and   Sidon across   the border   and rested.  God 
rested and so  did Jesus. Are  you greater than  God or 
Jesus? Don't   boast about   yourself saying   that you 
work without   taking a  rest, since   it will  make you 
stressed   out.   Even Elijah,   a  great   prophet,  was 
depressed and frustrated  due to stress,  after   leading 
Israel  to  repentance  and   bringing rain   through  his 
prayer. Elijah rested and  came out of stress. By taking 
a rest, he overcame stress.

  According to 1 Kings  19:5-8, he lay down  under the 
tree and fell  asleep. All at  once an angel  touched him 
and said, "Get up and eat." He looked around, and there 
by his head was a cake  of bread baked over hot coals, 
and a  jar of  water.  He ate  and drank   and then lay 
down again. The angel of the Lord came back a second 
time and touched him and said, "Get up and eat, for the 
journey is too much for you." So he got up and ate and 
drank. Strengthened by that food, he traveled forty days 
and forty nights until he reached Horeb, the mountain of 
God.  

  Elijah slept  under a  broom tree   and ate bread  and 
drank water. Then he  slept again, ate  and drank. This 
made him overcome  stress. When we  are under heavy 
stress, we need to rest.  When we follow God's  rule to 
work for six days  and to rest on  the seventh day, we 
will not  be under   stress. People think  that  they will 
achieve something by overworking themselves,  violating 
God's command to rest on  the seventh day.  However, 
as a  consequence, they   are stressed and  attacked  by 
various diseases such as heart attack or cancer.

  Fifth, to  overcome stress,  we  need to  exercise and 
enjoy sound hobbies. Sports  or hobbies are  good ways 
for us   to overcome  stress.  Proverbs  18:14 says,   "A 
man's spirit  sustains  him in  sickness, but  a crushed 
spirit  who  can  bear?"  When   we are   stressed and 
crushed,  no  one  can  cure  us.  No  physician  or  no 
medicine  can  cure  those  who    are  stressed   out. 
However, when our spirits are revived,  we can conquer 
any disease.

  Proverbs 15:13 says,  "A happy heart  makes the face 
cheerful, but heartache  crushes  the  spirit." When  we 
have happy hearts, we  will look radiant.  It means that 
we will be healthy, being full of vitality. The joy in our 
hearts gives  vitality and   drives diseases out.   On the 
other hand,  worries in  our hearts  weaken our   spirits, 
removing strength  and  vitality from us.  We will  lose 
radiance and become ill.

  It is very  good to watch  a good  movie or listen  to 
good music when we are under  stress.  Watching good 
movies and   listening to  music softens,   refreshes and 
rejoices our    hearts. To  rejoice  means to  overcome 
stress. When   we watch   a good  movie  or  listen  to 
music,  we  will  be  refreshed  and  joyous.  Then  the 
medicinal system of our  bodies begin to  work, because 
a cheerful heart is good  medicine. When good medicine 
works, we will be healed from stress. Taking a stroll or 
exercising is  also very  good. We  need to   walk 5,000 
steps a day. When we walk, it activates brain cells  and 
keeps muscles strong.  Walking is  good for  our health 
and circulation. When  we walk  13,000 steps  a day,  it 
will strengthen   our muscles,  burn  fat, promote   good 
circulation, and  refresh  our hearts.  When  we become 
joyous,  the  medicinal   system of   our  bodies  works 
properly and, thus, heals us from diseases and stress.

  Rev. Billy Graham  once said  that he  maintained his 
health by jogging. Many former Presidents of the United 
States like Roosevelt maintained good health by walking 
or jogging.   According to  an  ancient  Korean medical 
book, there are three precious gems:  food, medicine and 
stroll. It   means we  need to  eat well,  to use  proper 
medicine and to take a stroll  for good health. Taking a 
stroll or exercising is good for relaxation, circulation and 
refreshment.  It  is  very  helpful  for  us  to  overcome 
stress. However, exercising  over the limit  is not good. 
Heavy  exercises may be  helpful before the  age or 25 
but, after   that, light   exercise or   strolling is   better. 
Proper exercise  will  remove fatigue   from our  bodies, 
refreshes our hearts,  activates the  medicinal system of 
our bodies, delivers  us from  stress, and  helps us  live 
with joy.

  Sixth, to overcome  stress, we  need to do  something 
that has absolutely nothing to do  with our profession. I 
once interpreted sermons of  Rev. Sam Todd,  a famous 
evangelist.  He came to Korea and  led a huge crusade. 
Tens of thousands of people gathered in  the campaign. 
He went to his hotel room,  took a shower, changed his 
clothes, lay down on the  bed and read a  book. Since I 
was the interpreter, I entered his room and  thought  he 
was reading  the  Bible   or a spiritual   book. When I 
found out that it was a   novel, I was shocked. Since  I 
was only  a young  preacher,  I might  possibly read   a 
novel but he  was a  world renowned  evangelist. Being 
stunned, I asked, "Rev. Todd, you are such a great man 
of God  who  testify God   before multitudes  of people. 
How can you read a novel in your hotel room? Are you 
in your   right  mind?"   Rev. Todd  smiled  and  said, 
"Brother Cho,  you  are too  young  to understand  how 
exhausting it is to preach  before a large  congregation. 
It consumes  my  spirit, soul  and  body. I  need  to be 
refreshed. When I  read a  novel,  it changes my mood 
and gives me enough strength to  read the Bible and to 
preach before people." I  thought to myself that  he was 
making an excuse to justify himself. I thought he was a 
hypocrite. These   days, when  I  am  exhausted   after 
preaching  the  word,   I read   cartoons.  When   I am 
extremely tired,  I  can't read  the  Bible or   theological 
books because they are too heavy.  While I read comics 
and laugh, I am refreshed.

  When you  are under  stress, do  something that  has 
nothing to do with your profession. Then it  will refresh 
you and motivate  you to  think positively. We  need to 
overcome stress.

  I was once a workaholic myself. I  overworked myself 
and collapsed in 1964.  It cost me a lot--both physically 
and mentally. Two persons  made me realize  one thing. 
A man  came  to me  and  said, "Pastor  Cho,  are you 
greater than God?" I replied,  "What kind of question  is 
this? When did I say that I was greater than God?" He 
said, "You think you are greater than  God. God worked 
for six days and rested  on the seventh day.  You work 
seven days a week.  You are greater  than God." I was 
shocked at his word and realized I was wrong.  Another 
incident was  a   meeting with   a physician.  He said, 
"Pastor, take some rest." I said,  "I am too busy." Then 
he said, "Taking a rest  is also part of work.  You need 
to recharge  yourself  by taking  a rest to  go on  with 
your ministry. You need to recharge batteries. The same 
is true with man. Man needs to be recharged regularly." 
After this conversation, I tried  to take one day a  week 
off. Since I  serve the  Lord on the  Lord's day,  I take 
Mondays off. I am in good  health in spirit, in soul  and 
in body.

  Unless we  take care  of stress,   we will fail  in our 
lives, our homes  and in   our social lives.  I pray  that 
you will  overcome stress  in  Christ, that  you will   be 
filled with the Spirit and  faith, and that you  will enjoy 
good  health  as  well  as  spiritual  blessings  and  the 
blessings of your lives.

