Sunday, September 19th 1999
Title : The Deficiency Syndrome
Scripture Reading : Ps 23:1-3

  Today I  will deliver  a message  entitled, "The   Deficiency 
Syndrome."
  For those who did not live through the Japanese Occupation 
or the Korean War, the  current "IMF crisis" has surely  been 
the greatest difficulty they've ever had to face. 
  Losing jobs,   having businesses   fail, losing   income and 
having the standard of  living fall are  hard to accept.  Living 
through such  experiences has   left an illness  in  all of  our 
hearts and  minds called,  "The Deficiency  Syndrome." Many 
have fear  of losing  their jobs,  losing their   businesses, and 
being defeated   in the  social race.   They have  a sense   of 
inferiority, despair, pessimism, and  a sense of  being lost. To 
get  out   of  this  syndrome   and  to  live   positively  and 
successfully, one  needs to  accept  Christ as  Savior and  let 
Him become the resource of  his life. David said, "God  is my 
Shepherd, I   shall not  want."  Our God   is omnipotent  and 
omnipresent. 
  Since  He  is  the  Creator,  if  He  were  to  become  our 
Shepherd, of course we would not have any other need. Why?

  First,  David  said,  "He  makes   me lie   down in   green 
pastures." Shepherds  lead their   sheep to green  pastures  in 
order for the sheep to  eat and fill their stomachs  by grazing 
in green pastures. Since we have accepted Jesus Christ whom 
God has  made as  our  Shepherd, we  have all   become His 
sheep. God has made an  enormous green pasture at  the foot 
of the Cross where we can all graze. We  must all go to that 
pasture and enjoy all  that Christ has prepared  for us. Christ 
has prepared pastures of forgiveness and righteousness  at the 
foot of the Cross. Christ's  words of forgiveness and  promise 
grow in the pastures for  all of us to eat.  We are nourishing 
ourselves with life when we accept His words into our hearts 
and His promises in the Bible.
  When we go to the Cross, we can find fields of pardon and 
righteousness.
  Romans 4:25 tells us,  "He was delivered over  to death for 
our sins and was raised  to life for our  justification." This is 
what grows at  the Cross.  It is  written in Romans  3:23-26, 
"For all have sinned and  fall short of the  glory of God, and 
are justified freely by  his grace through  the redemption that 
came by Christ  Jesus. God  presented him  as a  sacrifice of 
atonement,  through  faith   in his   blood.  He  did   this to 
demonstrate his justice, because in his forbearance he had left 
the sins  committed  beforehand unpunished   - he  did it  to 
demonstrate his justice at  the present time, so  as to be just 
and the one who  justifies the man  who has faith  in Jesus." 
These are the  promises that grow  at the foot  of the Cross. 
This is the  pasture where  God tells  us to  graze and  rest. 
Then how can we graze in such pastures? We must  meditate 
on these promises.  "Wow, such  wondrous things are  at the 
Cross," we must  say to ourselves  and meditate on  them so 
that we can realize their implications. God promised to forgive 
us and make us righteous. These words are at the foot of the 
Cross. When we  meditate on  the promise  and accept  it by 
faith, giving thanks for it, we are eating of the promise. Since 
God has caused so much  to grow in the pasture  He has led 
us to,  we must   graze and fill   ourselves with pardon  and 
righteousness. The infilling  of the Holy  Spirit also grows  in 
that pasture.
  It is written in  John 14:16-17, "And I  will ask the Father, 
and he   will give  you another   Counselor to  be  with you 
forever - the  Spirit of truth.  The world  cannot accept him, 
because it neither  sees him  nor knows him.  But you  know 
him, for he lives with you and  will be in you." Although the 
world cannot see nor know the Spirit of truth, he lives within 
all of us. We must meditate deeply on these words. When we 
meditate deeply on how the Spirit of truth resides in all of us 
and as we speak words of  thanks, we are in fact  grazing at 
the foot of the Cross.
  It is written in  1 Peter 2:24, "He  himself bore our sins  in 
his body on the  tree, so that we  might die to sins  and live 
for righteousness; by his  wounds you have been  healed." As 
we  meditate  upon  how  Christ  was  wounded  in  Pilate's 
courtyard to make  us well  and accept  it by  faith, we  will 
indeed be made well. This is  in fact grazing on the grass  of 
healing at the Cross. Recite  with me Deuteronomy 8:18, "But 
remember the LORD your God, for it is he who gives you the 
ability to produce wealth, and so confirms his covenant, which 
he swore to your forefathers,  as it is today."  God has given 
us the ability to  produce wealth. Even  to those who  do not 
believe, God  gives rain,  sunshine and   "the bread." But  He 
gives more  than that;   He gives us  the  ability to  produce 
wealth. We must meditate upon these words and think, "Wow, 
I have been given such ability!" We must accept  these words 
by  faith   and when   we  thank   Him,  they  become   our 
nourishment. We will lie at the Cross in the pasture of eternal 
heaven.
  It is written  in John  11:25, "Jesus  said to  her, I am  the 
resurrection and  the life.  He who  believes in  me will  live, 
even though he  dies." Why should  we fear death?  Christ is 
the resurrection and the life.  Since He has already conquered 
death, Christians  will live  even though  they die.  When we 
accept this by faith and thank  God, we have nothing to fear, 
for we shall live even though we die. 
  It is  written in  John 14:1-3,  "Do not  let your  hearts be 
troubled. Trust  in God;   trust also in   me. In my  Father's 
house are many rooms; if  it were not so,  I would have told 
you. I am going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go 
and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to 
be with me that  you also may be  where I am." You  should 
think, "Wow, when I cross the river  of life to the other side, 
I have a  place to  go!" When you  think this  way and give 
thanks to God, you will be assured that your final home is in 
heaven.
  It is  written  in 1  Thessalonians  4:16-17, "For   the Lord 
himself will come down  from heaven, with  a loud command, 
with the voice of the  archangel and with the trumpet  call of 
God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. After that, we who 
are still alive and are left will be caught up with them in  the 
clouds to meet the Lord  in the air. And  so we will be  with 
the Lord forever." The course  of the history of mankind  will 
come  to  a  point  when  Christ  will  return  and  take  all 
Christians up in the  air where we  will be changed and  rule 
eternally with  Christ. As  we meditate  on these  words and 
confess with our  lips our faith  in them  and give thanks  to 
God, we  will be  included among  the ones  to be  lifted up. 
Many Christians   today suffer   from spiritual  mal-nutrition. 
Why do they suffer from such a condition? It is because they 
do not graze and eat in the  pasture that Christ has prepared. 
They merely say, "Oh  the Cross, Oh the  Cross," but do not 
realize that they must  meditate on the promises  which grow 
at the foot  of the  Cross. By accepting  and confessing  their 
faith in  the promises,  they can  nourish themselves  so that 
they can be made well in all things  as their spirits are made 
well. As  soon as  I wake  up in  the morning,  I go   to the 
pasture at  the foot  of the   Cross and by  remembering the 
promises God has made, I thank the Lord and  nourish myself 
with them.   No matter  how  much  we may   graze in  the 
pasture, the grass will grow and grow  again. We must graze 
everyday. Since God  led us  to lie  in the pasture,  it is  our 
fault if we do not eat  of it. Christians should not blame  God 
if they have spiritual malnutrition. Why do you  say you have 
weak faith? If you graze  daily at the foot  of the Cross, you 
will have  unbelievable  faith, be   full of  blessings and  live 
victoriously. But some of you fail to meditate on the promises, 
fail to accept them by faith, and fail  to make God's promises 
work for you. Starting  from today, every  one of you  should 
meditate on  the promises  at the  foot of  the Christ,   accept 
them by faith,  give thanks  for them,  and make  them your 
nourishment.

  Second, "He leads me beside quiet waters." The Holy  Spirit 
becomes the very water that comforts and brings peace to our 
spirits. When  we have  fellowship with  the Holy  Spirit, we 
become closer   to Him  and  we can   feel our  thirst  being 
quenched.
  It is written in Romans  8:26, "In the same  way, the Spirit 
helps us in our weakness. We do not know what we ought to 
pray, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groans that 
words cannot express."  When we  are frustrated  and cannot 
find solutions to our problems, the Holy Spirit tells us to pray 
and He  Himself prays  on our  behalf so   that we can  find 
solutions. He quenches our longing--  our thirst for solutions. 
We must always communicate with the Holy Spirit. We  must 
welcome, accept and trust in the Holy Spirit.  The Holy Spirit 
came to live with  us. He is  the Spirit of  wisdom when we 
need  wisdom,   the Spirit   of  knowledge   when we   need 
knowledge, and   our Counselor  when  we need   advice. He 
provides the   ability and  potential for   each of  us so   that 
through knowledge given by  Him, we can  live holy lives  in 
fear and worship of our  God. The Holy Spirit  is our partner 
in life who stays by  our side in order  to help us. When we 
trust the Holy Spirit,  it is like drinking  water that quenches 
thirst. Also, through  the Holy Spirit,  heaven always remains 
in us.
  It is written Romans 14:17, "For the kingdom of God is  not 
a matter of  eating and drinking,  but of righteousness,  peace 
and joy in  the Holy Spirit."  The Holy  Spirit comes into  us 
and fills us with righteousness, peace and joy so that we  can 
experience heaven in our hearts.
  It is written in  2 Corinthians 6:16,  "We are the  temple of 
the living God." As  such, we can know  that the Holy Spirit 
dwells in us.  "As God  has said, I  will live  with them and 
walk among them, and I  will be their God,  and they will be 
my people." Our Shepherd  leads us to water  where we may 
rest our spirits and reside with the Holy Spirit.

  Third, our Shepherd  revives our  spirits. As  man lives  in 
this world of sin and Satan uses  his various trickery of fear, 
anxiety, hatred, jealousy, and discontent,  man loses all of  his 
spiritual life and hope. These  things attach to us  and slowly 
drain our spirit of  its life. As  we immerse ourselves in  this 
world from Monday  to Saturday,  these are  the reasons  we 
find it difficult  to pray,  we can't find  the heart  to sing or 
read the Bible, and we become so frustrated. The very  life in 
this world drains life from our spirits, making us weak as we 
live. However,  when  we come   to church  and hear   God's 
Word, the Holy Spirit revives our spirits.
  It is written in 1 Thessalonians 5:14-15, "And we urge you, 
brothers, warn those who  are idle, encourage  the timid, help 
the weak, be  patient with everyone.  Make sure that  nobody 
pays back wrong  for wrong,  but always  try to be  kind to 
each other and to  everyone else." As  we have fellowship  to 
advise, comfort, convict and  comfort one another--in essence 
taking care of one another, we revive our spirits. As such, we 
must not keep at  a distance from  the church. We  must not 
avoid fellowship. We  must try  to attend  cell services  early 
morning services,   and church  services  through which   our 
Shepherd revives our spirits. We can revive our spirits, which 
have been  crushed by  worldly things   through God's Word 
and  fellowship  with  the  Holy  Spirit  during  the  worship 
services. Our Shepherd holds on tightly to us and protects us. 

  Fourth, our Shepherd leads us in the  way of righteousness. 
Our societies are becoming more and more corrupt and rotting 
away. No matter how much  we fill our prisons,  there is not 
much change for  the better. The  reason is that  only Christ, 
the source  of  righteousness can   turn on  the light  of  the 
conscience. If the conscience is  kept in the dark,  all sorts of 
misdeeds are  allowed. When  the light  of the  conscience  is 
turned on,   only then  can  certain  misdeeds of   society be 
stopped. A  righteous man  is like  salt. Without  salt,  things 
begin to  rot.  Without righteousness,   man's inner  being is 
darkened and naturally his conscience is kept in the dark. Salt 
keeps things from decaying.  An unrighteous man  will follow 
his physical and carnal desires  into a dark corner  to commit 
unmentionable  deeds.   A family   without  righteousness   is 
corrupt. When the  righteous Christ  comes into  a household, 
He brings light,  but in a  family without Christ,  all sorts of 
corruption and lies  enter the  household. The  husband tricks 
the wife,  and  the wife   tricks the  husband. Amid   such a 
foundation of  lies, many  families  are breaking  apart today. 
Without righteousness, the  light of  the conscience  is turned 
off. In such a state, a family cannot live in peace.
  A government   without righteousness  is  corrupt. Without 
righteousness and  the light   of the conscience,  ministers  of 
state, politicians,   and governors  are  all  busy sit   in dark 
corners putting into their  pockets whatever comes their  way. 
Whenever I   see the  news  or read   the newspaper,  I  see 
politicians arrested for  corruption again and  again and again 
and again. Without the light of the conscience, no matter how 
many are put in prison, corruption will continue. 
  A business without righteousness is  corrupt. There is light 
only when  Christ is  present. Without  light, businesses  will 
cheat and  care only  about profits--  even  while the  nation 
crumbles, even while society crumbles. Businesses are plagued 
with corruption. Why is our  country suffering from this IMF 
crisis? Practically all  businesses-- big and  small, have dealt 
in  corruption,  and  that  corruption  has  finally  brought  a 
downfall   to  the   Korean   economy.  A   society   without 
righteousness is corrupt. 
  How can a society without the  light of Christ function and 
prosper righteously? If the whole  society were dark, if  all of 
Seoul were   dark, wouldn't  there be   an army  of thieves? 
When the whole  society is  dark, no  one can  see the  right 
path. If righteousness  were the  power plant,  the conscience 
would be  the lamp.   Jesus Christ is  the  power plant.  The 
power plant that gives light to the conscience is Jesus Christ. 
When Christ enters our life, our families, our society, and  our 
government, then the darkness in each of these places will be 
driven away with the light of the conscience. But without that 
light, all  laws made  by anyone  will be  useless. No  matter 
how many prisons  we build, they  will be  useless. Why? In 
darkness, there is no light. Only Christ can bring light.
  It is written in  Titus 2:11-14, "For  the grace of  God that 
brings salvation has appeared to all men. It teaches us to say 
"No"  to  ungodliness   and worldly   passions,  and  to   live 
self-controlled, upright  and godly  lives in  this present  age, 
while we wait for  the blessed hope -  the glorious appearing 
of our great God and Savior,  Jesus Christ, who gave himself 
for us to  redeem us  from all wickedness  and to  purify for 
himself a people that are  his very own, eager  to do what is 
good." When  the power  plant of  righteousness-Jesus Christ 
who died  on the  Cross and  was resurrected,  turns on   the 
light of  the conscience,  His  peace and  life begin   to bring 
holiness and truth into our lives, our families, and our society. 
Without Jesus   Christ, there  is no   righteousness. However, 
Christ leads us to  the path of righteousness.  Where there is 
righteousness, life returns.  Everything becomes  bright. Peace 
and  joy  spring   forth. When   Jesus  Christ  becomes   our 
Shepherd, our lives  are filled  with hope and  happiness with 
nothing more to be desired, for Christ  watches over us. "The 
Lord is my shepherd, I will not be in want." To overcome the 
IMF crisis  that brought   the deficiency syndrome  filling  us 
with anxiety, pessimism, and an inferiority  complex, we must 
accept Christ who brings optimism, creativity, productivity and 
energy. With Christ  as our Savior,  He will lead  us to calm 
waters and green pastures to  revive our spirits; He  leads us 
to the   path of   the righteous.   By having   Christ as   our 
Shepherd, we can experience  the miracle of being  made well 
even as our  spirits are  made well, filling  us with  a life of 
peace.   Higher   education   cannot   accomplish   this.   No 
government can  accomplish this.   No judgment of  the  high 
courts can  accomplish  this. There   must be  a fundamental 
change within us.  This change  takes place when  we follow 
Christ our Savior.

  Let us bow our heads and pray.
  Oh holy God  of love,  thank you  for allowing our  Savior, 
Jesus Christ, to  free us  from our  deficiency syndrome.  We 
know that no matter how green  the pasture is at the foot  of 
the Cross where you may lead us, if we do not meditate upon 
your promises and accept and confess our thanks to you, it is 
all to no avail. There  is nothing that can  be done when one 
refuses to eat even while sitting  at the banquet table. Thank 
you God, for leading us  to green pastures at  the foot of the 
Cross. Help  us to  attain your   blessings by confessing  our 
thanks for all of your promises, which we accept by faith: the 
promises of   forgiveness, righteousness,  the infilling   of the 
Holy Spirit, healing, joy,  blessing and eternal  salvation. Help 
us to be healed and  receive great blessing. Oh  Savior, thank 
you for  leading  us by   the hand. Today,   at this  moment, 
revive  our  spirits.  Help  us  to  pass  through  this  world 
smoothly with our true selves revived so that we can live  by 
faith. Help us now and turn on our entire conscience. Without 
your light, the world is dark. With Christ as our power plant, 
light our conscience  so that we  can become  Christians who 
follow after the  light. And  through it,  let us  live righteous 
lives, enjoying  your  blessings-- in   line to  inherit blissful, 
eternal salvation.  In the  name of  our  Savior, Jesus  Christ, 
Amen.

  

