Sunday, September 5 1999
Title : The Lord is with you
Scripture Reading : Ps 23:4

  Today I  will deliver  a message  titled, "He  Will Be 
With You." Whether we  like it or not,  as it is  written 
in Job  5:7 concerning   sparks flying skyward,   man is 
born into a  life of hardship.  All things in  this life are 
uncertain and   unstable. In  such a   situation, we  face 
many ordeals of  varying severity.  Where can we  seek 
and find comfort and peace of mind? 
  Psalm 23   can guide  us to   the path  that leads   to 
comfort and peace.

  First, let us open  our minds and hearts  and consider 
what it  tells us  about  not fearing  harm even  as  we 
walk through the  valley of  the shadow  of death.  The 
Bible tells us  that there  is a valley  of the  shadow of 
death. I have been to the valley of the shadow of  death 
as I traveled around the  desert of Judea. The  valley is 
so deep and rough; I  couldn't stand to look down  at it 
even from a  railing. It  felt as  though I  would tumble 
down that valley.  I am  sure all  of you  remember the 
Jin-bu-ryung mountain  road  that  led to  Kang-leung. 
The first  time  I was   on that  road, I  worried  about 
whether I  would  live or   die. Looking  down at   such 
valleys of   death is   a dizzying   experience, a   fearful 
experience. It sends shivers down  your spine. However, 
the Bible tells us that there  will come a time when we 
must walk through such valleys.
  Let us look down  at the valley  of sin. Being lost  in 
such a  valley is  truly a  terrifying experience.  Let  us 
look down at the valley of greed. Look at the man  who 
in a scheme to  obtain insurance money,  killed his own 
son and burned his corpse. When we are lost in  such a 
valley, we can  do unimaginable things.  I am driven  to 
fear.
  Look down  at  the valley   of disease,  suffering and 
death.   Looking  down   at   those  who   suffer   from 
indescribable pain from an illness 24 hours a day makes 
me shiver with fright.
  Look down at the valley of sadness and despair. Look 
squarely at  those drowning  in despair,  depression and 
sadness, unable to  save themselves. Look  down at  the 
deep valleys of despair.  Or look down  at the valley  of 
defeat, failure and destitution.
  Now look  down at  the valley  of death,  one that  is 
truly frightening.  When those  who do  not even  know 
where they come  from or  where they  are headed  fall 
into such  a valley,  there  is no  return. As   we travel 
through this  life, we   can't avoid going  through  such 
valleys. When we  are about to  enter into such  valleys 
we are filled with despair. Actually, going  through such 
a valley is not much of a problem.  The problem is that 
we can be  harmed in the  valley. As  we pass through 
the valley of  the shadow  of death,  there is  always a 
fear of  harm.  As we  do  things that   go against our 
conscience and we  pass through  such valleys, we  will 
suffer. As   we pass  through,  we lose   all the  things 
which we have worked all our lives to build  and people 
point their  fingers at  us in  accusation. We  even  fear 
having  certain  injury   and suffering   come  upon   us 
physically.
  Some   of    us   face    the   pitch-dark   of    night 
psychologically. Such darkness  does not offer  even the 
slightest bit of hope.  Such darkness is  frightful indeed. 
Some of us are abandoned  by everyone around us,  and 
we must   walk through  the  valley  alone  in solitude. 
Some of  us shiver  from  the fear  of even  losing  our 
identity. We even fear  losing ourselves completely  over 
to death. Traveling through the valley of the shadow  of 
death is  not a  very pleasant  experience. It  is a  truly 
frightful and  terrible experience.  Nonetheless, we  must 
all pass  through such  valleys as   we go through  life. 
The  question  is,  "How  can  we  pass  through  such 
valleys of the  shadow of death  and come out  of them 
without being harmed?

  The second thing that  we must observe in  the Bible 
is that it tells us we will not come to harm. Those who 
have Christ  as  their Shepherd   will not have   fear of 
harm as they pass through the valley of death. We shall 
be free from  such fear. As  we pass  through the dark 
valleys of darkness  having everyone abandon  us, there 
is one who appears and stays by  our side. That person 
is our   Savior. He   is our   salvation. When   you are 
passing through the valley of death, everyone  will leave 
you. Your friends, your relatives and even  your families 
cannot help you. You may even abandon  yourself. Even 
at such moments of utter despair, there is one who  will 
not abandon but  stay by  your side.  That is our  Lord 
Jesus Christ. He has told  us that He will  not leave us 
nor ever abandon us. He told us that He would be with 
us until the end of time. Christ has already  gone before 
us and  passed  through the   valley of  the shadow   of 
death and has  filled it up.  By dying on  the cross and 
having  been   resurrected,  Christ   has brought   great 
victory to each one of  us. He has leveled the  valley of 
death. As He had gone through the  valley of death and 
sin, He has  filled and  leveled it  with forgiveness  and 
righteousness. 
  It is written in Titus 3:6-7, "Whom He poured out on 
us generously through Jesus Christ  our Savior, so that, 
having been  justified by  his grace,  we might  become 
heirs having  the hope  of  eternal life."  Having passed 
first through the valley  of the shadow  of death, Christ 
has filled the valley with forgiveness  and righteousness. 
For Christians, although  they may  travel through such 
valleys of death, He has made it so that we could  walk 
on level pathways. As Christ  passed through the valley 
of greed, He made that valley level as well.
  It is written in Psalm 23:1, "The Lord is my shepherd, 
I shall not  be in want."  By providing us  with all that 
we may  need in  Christ, He  has freed  us from  being 
pulled by   greed, and  filled the   valley of  greed with 
satisfaction.
It  is  written  in  Matthew  6:33,  "But  seek  first  his 
kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will 
be given  to you  as  well." Christ  commanded us  this 
way so that we may not fall prey to our own greed and 
curiosity.
  Christ has  gone  before us  and  has leveled   all the 
valleys of  illness, suffering   and death as  He  Himself 
passed through them.  He filled  them with  healing and 
peace.
  It is  written in  1 Peter  2:24, "He  Himself bore  our 
sins in his  body on the  tree, so that  we might die  to 
sins and live for righteousness; by his wounds you have 
been healed."  As Christ  passed  through the  valley of 
sickness and  suffering,  He filled   it with  healing and 
peace. That  is why  we can  depend on  Christ as   we 
pass through the valley of sickness and suffering,  doing 
so with   the confidence   of being  healed.  Christ  also 
leveled the  valley of   sadness and despair.  Christ  has 
filled the  valley of  sadness and  despair with  joy and 
happiness. 
  It is written in  John 16:24, "Until  now you have not 
asked for   anything in  my  name.  Ask and   you will 
receive, and   your joy   will be  complete."  Christ  has 
indeed filled the valley of sadness and despair with joy.
It is written in Psalm  16:11, "You will fill me  with joy 
in your  presence, with  eternal pleasures  at your  right 
hand." When you walk with Christ at your side, deepest 
valleys become  level ground  filled with  joy. Even  the 
dreadful valley of  the shadow  of death  becomes level, 
for Christ has filled it with resurrection and life.
  It is written  in Revelation  21:3-4, "And God  himself 
will be with them and be their God. He will wipe every 
tear from their  eyes. There  will be  no more death  or 
mourning or crying or pain,  for the old order  of things 
has passed  away."  When we  face  the dark  shadowy 
valley of death,  a mere glance  fills us with  fright and 
dread. We must remember  that Christ has  gone before 
us and filled the valleys with resurrection and salvation. 
That is  why even  as we  pass through  the valley   of 
death we do not need to fear  harm for we have Christ. 
Those who do  not have Christ  will be  harmed. Those 
who do not have Christ will  be torn, injured, and made 
to suffer.  However, those   who walk with   Christ will 
only find level ground as Christ fills the  valleys one by 
one.
  For Christians, the valley of the shadow of death is a 
mere illusion. Christ is reality. When we cling to Christ, 
all our fears of  the valley of the  shadow of death will 
disappear as we realize we  are on level ground and  no 
harm will come to us. In the valley  of sin, we walk on 
the level  ground  of  righteousness.   In the  valley of 
greed, we walk  on the  level ground of  satisfaction. In 
the valley  of sickness  and suffering,  we walk  on the 
level ground   of healing  and  peace. In   the valley  of 
sadness and  despair, we  walk on  the level  ground of 
well being and blessing. In the valley of death, we walk 
on the level ground  of resurrection and  life. Christ has 
made our valleys  of death into  level grounds  of peace 
so that when we ourselves come to   the valleys, rather 
than looking with despair, we can look upon Christ who 
is holding our hand as we travel on level ground.

  The third  thing we  can observe  is the  reason why 
Christ provides us with  level ground. It  is because He 
is our refuge.
  It is written in Psalm  18:2-3, "The Lord is  my rock, 
my fortress and  my deliverer; my  God is my  rock, in 
whom I take  refuge. He  is my shield and the  horn of 
my salvation, my stronghold. I call  to the Lord, who is 
worthy of praise, and I am saved from  my enemies." A 
fortress and a  stronghold are  that which  protect from 
the attack  of  the enemy.  No  matter how   strong the 
enemy's attack might be, the fortress stands.
  During the Battle at  Im-jin, the fortress  on Hang-ju 
stood strong and  General Kwon-yul  was victorious.  A 
little north of  here, we can  visit the Hang-ju  fortress. 
That very fortress played an important role in defending 
the capital city as part  of General Kwon-yul's defense. 
The Japanese attacked  the fortress unceasingly.  During 
the Im-jin War in 1592, 
  General Kwon-yul had the command  of the army for 
seven years, and  together with Admiral  Lee Soon-shin 
who fought at sea defeated the Japanese  army. In 1592, 
with less than  3,000 soldiers,  he made  a stand at  the 
Haeng-ju fortress  in order  to protect  Seoul. Haeng-ju 
fortress  was   the defensive   wall.  Ukida   Hideo, the 
Japanese commander   had 30,000  men  with whom   he 
attacked Haeng-ju  fortress. The   army surrounded the 
fortress but the  Korean soldiers  and the people  in the 
area united   together, with  even  the women   carrying 
rocks in their aprons to hurl down upon the enemy.
  In Korea,   the word   for "apron"  is  haeng-ju.  The 
soldiers even poured boiling water on the enemy. In  the 
end   24,000  enemy   soldiers  perished,   a  resounding 
victory.  A  fortress  is  a  structure  that   protects its 
inhabitants from all  attacks of  the enemy,  one that  is 
virtually indestructible. Jesus  Christ is our  fortress. As 
we live our lives, no matter how much we  are attacked 
by our  enemies, Jesus  Christ becomes  our fortress  in 
whom we can find refuge. Even as we pass through the 
dark valley   of the   shadow of   death with   countless 
enemies around us,  when we hide  in Jesus  Christ, He 
becomes  our   fortress, our   refuge.  When   you  give 
yourself to Christ completely  and hide in  Him, trusting 
and  depending  on  Him,  Christ   indeed becomes   our 
refuge and surrounds us as a mighty fortress.
  It is written in Psalm 91:9-11, "If you make the Most 
High   your  dwelling--even   the  Lord,   who  is   my 
refuge--then no harm  will befall  you, no  disaster will 
come near your  tent. For  he will command  his angels 
concerning you to  guard you in  all your ways."  When 
we pass through the valley  of death, we must discover 
Christ at our side so that we may hide in Him and hide 
ourselves in the mightiest  of fortresses. There is  not a 
single enemy in the world who could break  through the 
fortress.
  In addition,   Christ takes   His shepherd's  staff  and 
protects  us.  The   shepherd's staff   is  used  for   the 
purpose of guiding the  sheep. The staff  is symbolic of 
the wisdom, intelligence, ability and  knowledge of Jesus 
Christ. Who   would dare   to oppose  such  a  staff  of 
wisdom,  intelligence,   ability  and   the  knowledge   of 
Christ? No matter  what strategy the  enemy may have 
in mind, Christ-- with His staff of wisdom, intelligence, 
ability and knowledge,  can find  the measure  to defeat 
them.
  The staff also represents the  almighty power of God. 
A shepherd uses  a staff to  hit and  injure the animals 
that come to attack the  sheep. Christ uses His  staff to 
protect us.
  It is written  in 1 John  5:18, "We  know that anyone 
born of God does not continue to sin; the  one who was 
born of God  keeps him  safe, and  the evil  one cannot 
harm him." As Christ is  our fortress, when we  hide in 
Him, He takes His staff and  dares the enemy to attack 
us, preventing all his advances.

  Fourth, we   must always  live with   peace of  mind. 
Even as we pass  through the valley  of death we need 
not fear harm as we know Christ will  take His staff to 
protect us and provide  a refuge for  us by becoming  a 
fortress around us.  With Christ  protecting us,  we can 
live with the  most comforting  reassurance. Only  those 
who believe  in  Jesus Christ   can have  true peace  of 
mind as they live in this orld. Nothing is certain in this 
world. Nothing is static, but always changing. We  can't 
help  but   be nervous   and  anxious   about the   next 
unknown   changes.  Many  attempt   to find   security 
through temporal power,  or money, or  even from  their 
friends and families--all in vain.
  It is written in Psalm 146:3-4, "Do not put  your trust 
in princes, in mortal men, who cannot  save. When their 
spirit departs, they  return to the  ground; on  that very 
day their plans  come to  nothing." There is  nothing in 
this  world  we  can  trust.  However,  knowing  Christ, 
when we hide in  Him and trust Him  believing He will 
protect us   with His  staff,  we can   feel indescribable 
peace  of  mind  wash  over   us. Why?   For although 
mountains may  crumble and  rivers  may run  dry, the 
Word of God is unchanging. Christ who holds all power 
over all things in this  world is our refuge, our  fortress 
and our  defense. In  that fortress,  Christ  with all  His 
wisdom, intelligence,  ability  and almighty   power shall 
fight in our place and protect us. When we trust in Him 
and have this knowledge, we will have peace of mind.
  It is written in  Romans 8:35-39, "Who  shall separate 
us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or  hardship or 
persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? 
As it is written,  'For your sake we  face death all day 
long; we are considered as sheep to be slaughtered.' No, 
in all these things we are more than conquerors through 
him who  loved  us. For   I am  convinced that  neither 
death nor  life, neither  angels nor  demons,  neither the 
present nor the  future, nor  any powers,  neither height 
nor depth, nor anything else in all creation,  will be able 
to separate us  from the love  of God  that is in  Christ 
Jesus our Lord." Jesus Christ called us with His love to 
embrace us with His precious blood. He stays  by us as 
we pass through  the valley of  death and  becomes our 
fortress, our rock,  our refuge  and our  defense so that 
we can trust Him. He takes  His mighty staff to defend 
us from our enemies.  For us who look  to Jesus Christ 
and hide in Him, there can be nothing but pure peace.
  We must realize what  a great blessing  it is to  have 
Christ as our shepherd. Those who  do not know Christ 
are without   a shepherd  as they   wander through  the 
mountains and  valleys and  are set  upon by  predators 
and the harsh elements, to be injured and  to finally die. 
We have a shepherd!  Although all may  abandon us as 
we pass through   the valley  of the  shadow of  death, 
Christ our  shepherd becomes  our  fortress and  refuge. 
Isn't this   the most  blessed  thing? When   you travel 
through this life and come  to the valley of  the shadow 
of death, do not look down upon the depth of the valley 
in fear, thinking about some great harm slowly dragging 
you  down  to anxiety,  fear, despair  and hopelessness. 
When  that   valley  fast   approaches you,   you   must 
remember that Jesus  Christ has already  come by  your 
side. No matter  how lonely and  difficult your  situation 
may be,  Christ is  with you.   No one can  stop Christ 
from being at your side. He extends His hand  and says 
to you, "I am your fortress, your rock, your refuge, your 
defense. Hide in my  shadow and  cling  to me." Christ 
has at His  disposal the  almighty, omnipotent power  of 
wisdom, intelligence, knowledge, and ability  to fight our 
enemies so that none of us may come to any harm.

  When we look upon Christ we have no reason to fear. 
Our Shepherd   leads us   to green  pastures  and  clear 
water to revive our  spirits and lead  us on a  righteous 
path so  that we  may reside  eternally in  our Father's 
house; He is the Good Shepherd. Our Shepherd  died for 
us and  was resurrected   for us in   order to level  the 
valley of the  shadow of  death. You  must meditate  on 
Christ day   and night  worshipping Him,   turning your 
eyes toward Him, trusting Him and take refuge in  Him. 
When you do so, whatever may besiege you, you cannot 
be harmed. You can then  live with peace of mind  even 
in this rough  world. Repeat  after me,  "Even though  I 
walk through the valley  of the shadow of  death, I will 
fear no evil,  for you are  with me;  your rod and  your 
staff, they comfort me." Don't be  afraid or alarmed. As 
you go through life, you will  have blessed lives as you 
walk with Christ. Let us bow our heads in prayer.

-Prayer-
  Oh Holy God  of love,  Our Father,  we pass  through 
many valleys during life.  Whenever we look  down, the 
depth of the valleys stagger  us. Whenever I look down 
at a dark  valley filled  with dark clouds  I shiver  from 
the thought that I  could be harmed  in such a  dreadful 
place. However, when I  focus my vision  toward Christ 
and I   see Him,  all  such  fears disappear.   We thank 
Christ  because  he  went  through   the valley   of the 
shadow of death as our Shepherd and has the  power to 
fill the   valleys and  make them   level. Oh  Father,  in 
Christ  even   the  valley   of death   becomes   one  of 
forgiveness and righteousness. Oh  Father, in Christ  the 
valley of  despair becomes  a  level ground  of joy,   the 
valley of sickness becomes one of healing,  the valley of 
curses becomes one of blessing, and the valley  of death 
becomes one of  resurrection and  life. Oh Jesus  Christ, 
You are our rock, our  refuge, our fortress. No  one can 
withstand  your  arm.  Your  staff  is  one  of  wisdom, 
intellect, ability and power. Your rod is  one of almighty 
authority. Nothing can dare oppose the rod and the staff 
of the Good Shepherd. There is no greater power in this 
world. 
  


