Sunday, March 7th 1999
Title : We Will Swallow Them Up
Scripture Reading : Num 14:1-10

  Right before Moses led the Israelites and entered Canaan, the land flowing with 
milk and honey, they faced a severe crisis at Kadesh Barnea. They were standing 
between rise and fall; life and death. That's because Moses had sent twelve men to 
explore the land of Canaan for 40 days so all the Israelites were looking forward to 
them, then the men returned and reported to them. Ten of them gave them a very 
terrible news: "The land we explored is barren and all the people there are of great 
size. We seemed like grasshoppers in our own eyes. Their cities are so fortified 
and large that we can't occupy them. If we invade them, we all will be killed and 
our families will be captured." Because of that report, the Israelites got exhausted 
and depressed when they were about to get into the land flowing milk and honey 
after going through the wilderness. They were totally disappointed and frustrated. 
That night all the people raised their voices and wept aloud. The next morning all 
the Israelites grumbled against Moses and Aaron, and the whole assembly said to 
them, "If only we had died in Egypt! Or in this desert! Why is the Lord bringing 
us to this land only to let us fall by the sword? We should choose a leader and go 
back to Egypt." The Israelites were in a great crisis.
  Then Joshua and Caleb, who were among those twelve  spies said 
to them, "The land we explored is flowing with milk and honey! And 
we don't have to be afraid of the people of the land, because their 
protection is gone and we will swallow them up. Let us take the 
land." But the whole assembly got up and were going to stone them. 
Then the glory of the Lord appeared from the sky. When the 
indignant people were looking at the cloud, the Lord said, "You, the 
ten spies, come out." As soon as they came out, the Lord killed them. 
He said continually, "You, who listened to the ten spies and 
grumbled with negative mind and suggested that you choose a 
leader and go back to Egypt, must wander about the wilderness for 
40 years. Since Joshua and Caleb obeyed me thoroughly, you can 
enter the land flowing with milk and honey." In reality the Israelites 
wandered around the wilderness for 40 years and their first 
generation died there and their second generation led by Joshua and 
Caleb could get into the land of Canaan.
  Here Joshua and Caleb had an excellent attitude for a crisis. The 
other ten spies and all the Israelites were struggling with uneasiness, 
fear, despair and frustration, and were going back with negative 
minds. Yet Joshua and Caleb were not in the same place. In that 
crisis, their attitudes were completely different. They said, "This 
trial is our meal." We have to eat meal every day. It is not strange, 
for we have breakfast, lunch and supper. Joshua and Caleb said that 
if we have a good attitude, all the trials and troubles become our 
meals. If we have meals, we will become energetic and healthy. Why 
did Joshua and Caleb say that such a sterile land, its powerful people 
and fortified cities are meals?

  First, trials are meals to believers. For what is seen is different 
from what it is. According to what is seen, the ten spies reported, 
"The cities are fortified, their people are powerful, and we looked 
like grasshoppers in our own eyes, and the land are barren." Today, 
in fact, what is around us is different from what we see.
  For instance, the earth looks flat in any place, even at a high 
mountain. In old days, people said, "Do not go far from home." They 
thought that they would fall and die because the earth was flat. 
However, though the earth looks flat, actually it is round. Hence, 
what is seen is different from what it is. The earth seems like 
staying without moving. Now we are worshiping very comfortably. 
We are not shaken or vibrated. Yet, the earth is really moving so 
strongly by itself. It runs by itself and around the sun with quite a 
speed. Who can believe it? We feel the earth comfortable, safe, and 
quiet, but in fact, it moves by itself and around the sun so violently.
  It seems that people disappear if they die, but actually it is not 
true. Their spirits leave their bodies for either heaven or hell. 
Likewise, there are many differences between what we see, hear, 
smell, taste and feel and what it is.
  The universe looks empty and history seems like running without 
any order. But as a matter of fact, there is God in the universe. He is 
the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and 
the End. He manages all our lives and rules the whole world and all 
the nations. This fact we can't see and feel, but it is true. Therefore, 
living in this world, we should not be afraid of the present situation. 
If we look to God and depend on Him, we will be successful in 
everything.
  The Bible says, "Believe in God." Why? Because He is an real 
image. Everything in this world is a virtual image. Only God is a true 
image who created the universe and everything and controls man's 
life and history. Therefore, since He is not seen but real in fact, we 
have to believe in Him. The Bible says, "Believe in God."  People 
say, "I have no faith. I have little faith." But it is a lie. For it is 
ridiculous to say to those who have no faith to have it. How can we 
say to those who have no arm to lift their arms? Can we ask those 
who have no leg to walk? It doesn't make any sense. God told us to 
believe, because all of us have potential abilities to believe.
  Jesus says in the Bible, "Have faith in God. I tell you the truth, if 
anyone says to this mountain, 'Go, throw yourself into the sea,' and 
does not doubt in his heart but believes that what he says will 
happen, it will be done for him." The miracle that a mountain is 
thrown into the sea can be performed. Therefore, we should not 
look at trials like a mountain but if we look to God and rely on His 
promise, trials will not threaten us but  become our meals. No 
matter what trials may threaten us, if we look to God who is greater 
than they are and trust in Him, visible trials will be overwhelmed 
through faith and they will rather become meals in our lives. Meals 
are essential food and become energy for us. Trials and troubles will 
become food and power for our faith.
  That's why we should not fear our affliction nor tremble because 
of that, but trust God and depend on Him. If we look to God and then 
consider our trials, they do not seem to be so serious. During the 
day, look at the sun and then things around you, they are not seen 
well. If we look to God and at our circumstances, we do not feel 
threatened by them. If God is with us, trials will become our food.

  Second, to those who have dreams trials will become meals. 
Dreams are the hope for future. Those who believe in God have 
dreams for tomorrow.
  Romans 8:31-39 states, "What, then, shall we say in response to 
this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare 
His own Son, but gave Him up for us all-- how will He not also, 
along with Him, graciously give us all things? Who will bring any 
charge against those whom God has chosen? It is God who justifies. 
Who is he that condemns? Christ Jesus, who died--more than that, 
who was raised to life--is at the right hand of God and is also 
interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? 
Shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or 
danger or sword? As it is written: 'For your sake we face death all 
day long; we are considered as sheep to be slaughtered.' No, in all 
these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved 
us. For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor 
demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither 
height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to 
separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord."
  With such a tremendous love God, our Father, holds and loves us 
through Jesus Christ. God, who made heaven and earth and 
everything and is the Sovereign over the universe, so loves us in 
Jesus Christ that we can't give up dreams. Only if God holds our 
hands, our future will never be dark. To those who have no dreams 
trials are caves and graves. If we entered the cave, there is no way 
out. We will be destroyed there, for we can't get out of the cave. Yet 
to those who have dreams trials are tunnels and courses toward 
hope. No matter how dark the tunnel is, it has a way out at the end. 
Therefore, though it is so dark, we have hope in our hearts because 
it is just a process to pass through. No matter how many trials may 
come to us, if God is with us, they will be tunnels not caves.
  In 1 Corinthians 10:13, "No temptation has seized you except what 
is common to man. And God is faithful; He will not let you be 
tempted beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, He 
will also provide a way out so that you can stand up under it." 
Therefore, when we go through trials and hardships, they will make 
us seek God more earnestly. When we are comfortable, we usually 
do not seek God. When we are rich, we do not call to God. When we 
go through the tunnel of trials, We seek God in the darkness. 
Therefore, we should know that if we face troubles and affliction, it 
is the instruction of God that we need to seek Him heartily.
  Furthermore, trials make us broken in our own understanding and 
more obedient. The life that we lead only with our own thoughts and 
plans God breaks and makes us turn to Him. God has predestined 
ways for your lives. When you walk to the way, He will bless you, 
but when you get off the way, you must wrestle with God. In order 
to let you return to the way, God sometimes gives you sufferings. If 
your children do not study hard as you wish, you will bless them, but 
if not, you have to wrestle with them: you have to argue with them 
and later even whip them. Likewise, trials are the plan of God, which 
makes us broken in our obstinacy and more obedient.
  Besides, trials makes our faith grow and be strong. Only those 
who experienced troubles and hardships are strengthened and 
powerful. If we lift up heavy things and put them down repeatedly, 
our arms will have strength. If our muscles have training, they will 
be strengthened. Our faith will grow and be powerful through trials. 
They are the seeds that bring us more hope. Through trials we are 
sure to go over to the other side. Since trials are tunnels, unless we 
go through those tunnels, we can not help but stay at our place. Yet, 
if we pass through the tunnel of trials, we can cross over to the 
other place. We can go over to the wider, vaster, more hopeful and 
blessing world.
  According to I peter 1:7, "These have come so that your faith--of 
greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by 
fire-- may be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory and 
honor when Jesus Christ is revealed." Hence, trials are the food 
prepared on the table of hope. If we have hope, the food on the table 
of hope is trials. To those who have hope, trials will become food 
but not poison. Therefore, to those who have hope, trials are nothing 
but meals we can enjoy and eat.

  Third, to those who pray, trials become their meals. because with 
affliction, they will pray more and have a deep relationship with God. 
While going through sufferings, there is no one who does not pray. 
Though he does not pray 
normally, if he faces affliction, he will look at the sky and ask God 
for help. Like this, If we face trials, we will pray and have a 
relationship with God.
  In 2 Samuel 22:7, "In my distress I called to the Lord; I called out 
to my God. From His temple He heard my voice; my cry came to His 
ears." The Bible says, "I will be with you in trouble, I will deliver 
you and honor you." Trials make us filled with the Holy Spirit more. 
Even though he is not filled with the Holy Spirit at usual time, if he 
faces hardships, pray all night, fast, and pray at the prayer mountain, 
he will be shining bright on his face  and be filled with the Holy 
Spirit. There are so many who experience the fullness of the Holy 
Spirit through hardships. Moreover, in trials, we can drive out 
secularity and demons by repenting. Before facing trials, we live 
after worldly value, sins, debauchery, but facing trials we repent of 
sins and secularity and demons leave us and become righteous 
before God and live godly lives.
  We read in 2 Samuel 22:29-30. "You are my lamp, O Lord; the 
Lord turns my darkness into light. With your help I can advance 
against a troop; with my God I can scale a wall." If God is with us, 
He will our lamp and make us turn us from darkness into light. 
That's why trials make us repent and change so that we can drive 
out demons and turn to God. And prayer moves God's hand that He 
may control trials. We call to God in affliction. In various kinds of 
calamity, we can call to God and He will reach out His hand and deal 
with our destiny and circumstances.
  Jeremiah 29:11-13 tells us, "'For I know the plans I have for you,' 
declares the Lord, 'plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans 
to give you hope and a future. Then you will call upon me and come 
and pray to me, and I will listen to you. You will seek me and find me 
when you seek me with all your heart.'" If we call to Him, we will 
hear. If we seek Him heartily, we will meet Him. God gives us peace, 
not sufferings; hope for the future not despair. Therefore, prayer 
can move God's hand that He will manage our hardships. As a result, 
hardships will become our meals.
  Psalm 119:71-72 says, "It was good for me to be afflicted so that I 
might learn your decrees. The law from your mouth is more 
precious to me than thousands of pieces of silver and gold." When 
we are suffering, then we keep the law of the Lord, love Him and 
obey His will. That's why to those who pray, sufferings will turn to 
meals.

  Fourth, also to those who praise, trials will be food.
  Psalm 50:23 reads, "He who sacrifices thank offerings honors me, and he 
prepares the way so that I may show him the salvation of God." In this world, we 
may complain and grumble without ceasing. Yet, if we thank and praise God, we 
will experience the glorious power of God.
  For example, one day a man with messy hair and long beard, wearing worn out 
clothes and shoes entered the office of Dr. N. Vincent Phil, sat down on the chair, 
sighed and said, "Pastor, I am abandoned. I have nothing. I don't have to live. I'm 
going to give up this world. By the way, on the radio, you said that those who are 
suffering should consult with you so I came. But I do not expect anything. For I 
have nothing. I have lost everything." He looked so miserable.
  The pastor gave him a piece of paper and a pencil and said, "Write down what I 
say. First, do you have your wife?" The man wrote, "Yes." "Second, do you have 
any children?" asked the pastor. The man answered, "Yes, I have a child. Though 
he studies well, he is very good." The pastor again asked, "Third, do you have any 
friend?" The man said, "Yes, I have just a few friends." "Fourth, do you sleep 
well?" The man laughed and said, "I don't make money but sleep well." "Fifth, do 
you digest food well?"  "Sure." The pastor let him write down those answers and 
said, "You read all those answers: I have a wife, a child, a few friends. I sleep well. 
I can digest food well. When you came here, you said you had nothing. But I think 
you have many things. Why did you say you had nothing? Why are you 
disappointed and frustrated? Since you have many things  like these, you need to 
be neat. Why do you act like homeless? You are not the one without anything but 
have many things."
  The man laughed and said, "When I came here, I thought I had nothing. But 
listening to you, I realize that I have a lot of things. The pastor told him to act like 
the one who has and prayed for him. Some time later, the pastor received a call 
from him. He said, "Pastor, thinking of what I have, I was so happy and feel 
thankful. And I prayed, "Lord, I thank you for my wife's living with me though I 
am poor. Thank you for a nice child and kind  friends, my good digestion and 
sleep. I had so many things to thank God for. So I changed my mind and had my 
hair cut and shaved my beard and wore neat clothes and shoes and went out for a 
new job. Then right away I got hired." He who sacrifices thank offerings can 
receive God's help. The Israelites marched around the castle of Jericho for six days 
and after the seventh day' marching, they shouted with thanks and praises and God 
worked and the wall of Jericho collapsed.
  What about the King, Jehoshaphat? He was attacked by enemies. 
Moabites, Ammonites and many united armies invaded Judah. The 
King, Jehoshaphat, was so afraid that he with his people went to the 
temple of God and cried out to Him, "Lord, Only can you judge 
between the strong and the weak. Please, help us!" Then God told 
him through the prophet. "Do not be afraid nor terrified. War belongs 
to me. Tomorrow you go out to fight them. You have nothing to fight 
with but I will fight for you."
  The next day the King, Jehoshaphat, appointed men to sing and 
praise the Lord. They stood in godly garments at the head of the 
army. When they saw enemies, they began to sing and praise the 
Lord, "Give thanks to the Lord, for His love endures forever." The 
enemies were confused and killed one another by themselves so the 
Israelites didn't have to fight. According to their singing and praising, 
the enemies speared themselves and at last there was no one spared. 
They got a great victory.
  What does this story mean to us? If we always grumble and 
complain, we will perish by ourselves. The Bible says, "He who has 
will be given more, but he who does not have will be taken from 
even what he has." If we say we have nothing, even what we have 
now will disappear. If we thank and praise God for what we have, He 
will appear to us.
  Psalm 22:3 says, "Yet you are enthroned as the Holy One; you are 
the praise of Israel." If we praise God, He will abide with us. If God 
is among us, trials will go away and we will be successful in 
everything. Therefore, the Bible says, "Give thanks in all 
circumstances." 
  Psalm 30: 4-5 states, "Sing to the Lord, you saints of His; praise 
His holy name. for His anger lasts only a moment, but His favor lasts 
a lifetime; weeping may remain for a night, but rejoicing comes in 
the morning. The Lord turned my wailing into dancing; you removed 
my sackcloth and clothed me with joy." Hence, when we thank and 
praise God, He will show up in our lives and change all our trials and 
troubles into our meals.

  Both the people who didn't enter Canaan flowing with milk and 
honey and the people who did were up to their attitudes. Those, who 
were afraid and negative and grumbled and drew back when they 
faced suffering, were killed. Yet, trials become meals to those, who 
look to God in the same place and trust Him, have dreams and hope, 
pray depending on the Holy Spirit, thank and praise God.
  Joshua and Caleb said, "Do not be afraid of them. We will swallow 
them up. Let us enter and occupy them." Therefore, troubles and 
affliction didn't destroy Joshua and Caleb. Those trials became their 
meals and Joshua and Caleb became more powerful, strengthened 
and greater, then they led the Israelites into the land of Canaan.
  No one who lives in this world will never face trials which are 
little or big. Our success and failure depend on our attitudes we 
manage those trials. Many types of trials must come near to us. 
When we face trials and troubles, we should not grumble and 
complain like the Israelites so their lives were wilderness, but we 
should look to God who is greater than trials and rely on Him 
thinking that they are just like a tunnel that we go through for a 
while and should know that if we finish passing we will go over to 
the other side where we will have eternal lives. When we face 
affliction and hardships, we have to be eager to pray and digest 
them. Even in trials and troubles, we should thank, praise and 
worship God, then He will reveal His power to help us.

-Prayer-
  Dear holy God, our Father, who has great love. We 
face countless trials and troubles in our lives. To 
some people, trials become caves and they got into 
them and die. Yet, to others, troubles become 
temporary tunnels and when they passed through 
darkness they have a bigger and vaster world. Lord, 
as Joshua and Caleb said, "We will swallow up trials 
and troubles," so let us consider all our trials that way. 
Please help us not give up those meals. We pray in 
Jesus' name. Amen.
