Sermon, May 2th 1999
Title : Love and Life
Scripture Reading : 1John 3:1-2

  The Bible says, "God is love." The love of God  made 
heaven and earth and gave life to everything. When we 
look at  flowers  in the  mountains  on the   fine spring 
days of May, we feel that those  flowers are saying the 
love of God.  With  the  love  of God,  they grow  and 
bloom. Only love  is the  source of  life and abundance. 
Love   between  married   couples   is  the   spring   of 
happiness and  the source   of producing their   children. 
Love   between   friends  makes  us   not  lonely  but 
delighted. Parents'  love  raises their   children and lets 
them grow.  The love  of God,   through His only  Son, 
Jesus, granted us   tremendous redemption.

  First,  love  has   unique  attributes.  They  are  the 
elements which can't be  separated from love.  For love 
covers all  wrongs and  cares. Since  parents love  their 
children, they make  every effort to  cover the faults  of 
their children. If  people expose  some children's  wrong 
deeds,  their  parents   try their   best  to  cover  those 
wrongs. That's because  of love.  Without love, wrongs 
would be  disclosed. Hatred   exposes wrongs, but  love 
covers them.
  1Peter 4:8 tells us, "Above all, love each other deeply, 
because   love   covers  over   a   multitude   of  sins." 
Therefore, if  we  say the  faults  of our  neighbor,  we 
have hatred but  not love.  Love makes  every effort to 
cover over our neighbors' faults and to encourage them. 
Love devotes,   serves, brings  up  and protects.   When 
parents    love   their    children,   their    devotion   is 
indescribable. Though  they have  all  kinds of  troubles 
raising their  children, they never think it hard. Because 
they love  their  children, they  are  willing to  sacrifice 
themselves to raise their children. They  serve, bring up 
and protect their  children with  their whole  might and 
will due to love.
  Ephesians 5:29-30 states, "No one ever hated his own 
body, but he feeds and cares for  it, just as Christ does 
the church-- for we are members of His body."  As we 
love our bodies, feed,  clothe and take care  of them, so 
the Lord loves  the church,  cares for  and  protects it. 
That's  why  love  always   sacrifices devotes,   serves, 
brings up and takes  care. Moreover, love  delights with 
the one who  it loves. If  we love our  children, we are 
pleased with them. We rejoice  with them. Grandparents 
are so  happy  with their   grandchildren. Love  delights 
with the one who it loves.
  We read in  1Peter 1:8,  "Though you  have not  seen 
Jesus, you love Him;  and even though  you do not see 
Him now,  you believe  in Him  and are  filled with  an 
inexpressible and   glorious joy."  Only by   hearing the 
name of Jesus,  we are  so joyful. Since  we love  Him, 
we rejoice   in His  name  and  in gathering   with His 
children. If I meet believers  while traveling abroad, I'm 
so glad. For I love Jesus.
  In 2  Corinthians  5:9, "So  we  make it  our  goal to 
please Him,  whether we  are at  home in  the body  or 
away from it." Whether we  live or die, as  the children 
we should rejoice in Jesus and please  Him. That is the 
attribute of   love. Love  makes the   one who  it loves 
blessed and abundant. We  will never wish  the one we 
love to fail, starve and be poor. Since parents love their 
children, they want them to be blessed. At times I  hear 
exorcists say, "Your dead father, mother, aunt and uncle 
come and harass you."  Yet we must  not believe them. 
For while  parents are  alive, they  try every  effort for 
their children's   success. Then  why do   they need  to 
torment their children  after they  die? It  doesn't make 
sense. If dead  parents became demons  and had power, 
they would care for their children, wouldn't they?  As a 
matter of   fact, Satan   comes in   the image  of  dead 
parents and tells  a lie.  Stealing, killing and  destroying 
are done by hatred but not by love. Love tries  to make 
the one whom it loves blessed and abundant.
  In John 10:10, "The thief comes only  to steal and kill 
and destroy; I have come  that they may have  life, and 
have it  to the  full."  Since Jesus  loves us,   He really 
wants us to have life to the full.
  We read  in Jeremiah  32:41, "I  will rejoice  in doing 
them good and  will assuredly  plant them  in this  land 
with all my  heart and soul."  The one whom  the Lord 
loves, He is pleased with and  wants to bless and plant 
on this earth but not destroy. Therefore, we should first 
understand this  attribute  of love  and  then know   our 
Lord, Jesus Christ.

  Secondly, today we  have to  think about the  love of 
God. The Bible says, "God  so loved the world  that He 
gave His only Son." Because the  love of God has been 
demonstrated through His only Son,  Jesus, Jesus is the 
very love of God. If you really  want to see the love of 
God, you  can see  it in  Jesus. He  who accepts  Jesus 
accepts the   love  of God. He  who depends  on Jesus 
depends on  the love  of  God. Since  God is   love, He, 
through Jesus,  does not  expose our  sins but  forgives 
and covers over them and makes us righteous.
  According to Ephesians  2:4-5, "Because of  His great 
love for us, God,  who is rich in  mercy, made us  alive 
with Christ even when we were dead in transgressions." 
Since God loves  us, He  covers over  all our  sins and 
makes us alive.  It is not  the will  of God to  condemn 
and kill us. For God is love. Love was revealed through 
Jesus Christ. Hence, if you receive Jesus Christ as your 
Savior, all your sins are  forgiven and covered and  you 
become justified, then due  to the love in  you, you will 
be overflowing with life. As beautiful flowers bloom,  so 
will life. Besides, the love of God,  through Jesus, raises 
and protects us. As parents raise, care for and bring up 
their children, so God loves us. As long as  we received 
Jesus, the love of  God, and the love  is in us,  is there 
any reason  for us  to be  stolen, killed  and destroyed? 
The  devil  hates  us  so  he  comes,  steals,  kills  and 
destroys us. Yet God is love. If we accept Jesus Christ, 
the love of God, He will enter us and lavish the love of 
God. In  that way,  the love   of God raises  us. "What 
shall we  eat?  What shall   we wear?  What shall   we 
drink?" Those problems the  love of God  will  solve to 
take care of  us. The love  of God continues  to protect 
and bring us up without ceasing.
  We read in Hebrews 13:5-6," 'Never will I leave you; 
never will I  forsake you.' So  we say  with confidence, 
'The Lord is my helper; I will  not be afraid. What can 
man do to me?'" That's why love shines in our  spirits, 
puts hope  in  our hearts   and grants  us praise    and 
songs on  our  lips. For   love never destroys   our life. 
Love gives us life to the full Since the love of God was 
demonstrated  to  us  through  Jesus  Christ,  we,  who 
received the love of Jesus Christ,  are cared for by God 
in our lives. Unless  we trust love,  we can not  believe 
anything in  this world.   As parents try  everything  to 
help their children  as much  as possible,  so God,  with 
infinite power,  loves, cares  for and  raises us  through 
Christ. The love  of  God  is so  pleased with  us who 
believes in Jesus. Love delights in the one who it loves. 
In the same way, God rejoices in us so much.
  It is written in Zephaniah 3:17, would you repeat after 
me, "The Lord your God  is with you, He  is mighty to 
save. He will  take great  delight in you,  He will  quiet 
you with   His love,   He will   rejoice over   you with 
singing." Wow! We might have misunderstood God. We, 
who accepted  Jesus as  our Savior,  overflow with  the 
love of   God through   Jesus Christ,   so God   delights 
greatly in us. God is so pleased and says, "Oh, you  are 
my children!" "He will quiet you with His love,  He will 
rejoice over you  with singing."  God rejoices over you. 
We were  saved  by the  precious  blood of   Jesus and 
received Jesus,  the  love of   God. Do you   know how 
pleased God is with  us? When we are  risen and enter 
heaven, God will joyfully call  us. Even now He greatly 
delights in us. We are very glad when we meet the one 
who is happy  with us. We  don't have to  be with the 
one who hates us. But  how nice it is  to meet the one 
who welcomes and delights in  us! God loves us so  He 
has great  pleasure in  us. The  love of   God wants to 
give us the best life and  hope. Love wants to give  the 
best thing,   but hatred  doesn't.  Love  gives the   best 
thing. If a husband loves his wife, he wants to give her 
the best things. If parents love their children, they want 
them to study to  the highest education  and offer them 
the best way for life. Love doesn't give bad things.
  Isaiah 61:10 says,  "I delight greatly  in the Lord;  my 
soul rejoices in  my God. For  He has clothed  me with 
garments of   salvation and  arrayed me   in a  robe of 
righteousness, as a  bridegroom adorns  his head like  a 
priest, and as  a bride adorns  herself with her  jewels." 
God has   clothed us  with garments   of salvation  and 
arrayed us in a robe  of righteousness, as a bridegroom 
adorns his  head like  a priest,  and as  a  bride adorns 
herself with her jewels. Those who were ungodly, filthy 
and should have been abandoned, God adorns beautifully 
like this through  Jesus Christ.  God gives  us the  best 
life and hope.
  In Jeremiah 29:11, "I know the plans  I have for you," 
declares the  Lord,  "plans to  prosper  you and   not to 
harm you, plans  to give you  hope and  a future." God 
says, "What   do you  think of   God?" We  are judged 
because we are away from God and sin, but if  we love 
and depend on Him,  He says, "I  do not harm you  but 
give you  peace and  hope." We  should know  that the 
love of God was poured on  us through Jesus and have 
to rejoice in  His love, thank  Him, depend  on the love 
and be encouraged and  bold. There is  no fear in  love. 
But perfect   love drives  out  fear. Therefore,   he who 
accepts Jesus  and is   in God's love  can  live without 
fear. Who is  greater than  God in this  world? Who  is 
mightier than God? It is  written, "He who is in  you is 
greater than things in the world." Hence, in  the love of 
God, we can  live with  strength and boldness  with no 
fear.

  Then thirdly,   if something  comes  up  and  we are 
deprived of the  love of  God, then  what shall  we do? 
You may be  afraid of  that. Yet  those who  believe in 
Jesus will never be abandoned.
  It proves in Romans 8:37-39,  "No, in all these things 
we are more  than conquerors  through Him who  loved 
us. For   I am  convinced  that neither   death nor  life, 
neither angels nor  demons, neither the  present nor the 
future, nor  any powers,  neither height  nor depth,  nor 
anything else in all creation, will be able to separate  us 
from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord."
  The love of  God in  Christ is  so great that  nothing 
can separate it. Here is a marvelous   parable. The love 
of God in Christ keeps us from death. The  love of God 
says, "Come,   anyone who   can separate  my  children 
from my love."
  Then, first, death comes and says, "I can separate the 
love of God  from His  children." Then  what does God 
answer? He  says, "Through   my Son, Jesus  Christ,  I 
have destroyed  death and  hell and  risen. You,  come." 
Then death flees away.
  John 5:24 says, "Whoever hears my word and believes 
Him who   sent me  has eternal   life and  will  not be 
condemned; he has crossed over from death to life."
  In 2 Timothy 1:10,  "Christ Jesus, who  has destroyed 
death and   has brought   life and   immorality to  light 
through the  gospel." God  says, "Therefore,  you death, 
come and see  if you can  separate my love  in Christ." 
Death came   but fell.   Then God   says again,  "Come 
anyone." Life came. Life  tempts people to  be separated 
from the  love of  God.  Life is  the temptation  of  this 
world.  If   we succeed,   we   face many   temptations. 
Wealth, fame and physical pleasure  come and tempt us 
to separate  us from  the love  of God.  Yet, God  says, 
"Can life separate  my people from  my love  in Christ? 
The life I give is better and more beautiful than the life 
of the world.  Can, the  one who drinks  dirty water  of 
the world, make my living water  dirty? Come, however 
strong the temptation of  the world is,  there is nothing 
better than the love  of God. Therefore,  the life of  this 
world has  no power  to separate  us from  the love  of 
God. We love Jesus  so much. Nothing can  separate us 
from the love of God in Christ. God says, "come."
  Fallen angels come and  say, "We can separate."  God 
says, "You, the angels show yourselves. Show  me your 
power and attack me." The  devil was going to  destroy 
Christ but was disarmed on the  cross. He came in one 
way but fled  in seven.  The devil  can never  stop the 
love of Christ.  Then the people  of authority came  and 
said, "We  can separate  your people  from the   love of 
Christ." People like the authority  of the world so  much 
that they easily  forget faith in  Jesus if  they have the 
authority. No  matter  how good   this authority of   the 
world is, it doesn't  go on more than  ten years. It  has 
no power to separate us from everlasting love of God in 
Christ. From the Roman ages,  Christians were tempted, 
persecuted and  killed by   countless authorities, but  no 
one gave up the love of God because of the authorities.
  Hebrews   11:37-38  reads,   "They   went  about   in 
sheepskins  and   goatskins,  destitute,   persecuted  and 
mistreated--the   world  was   not  worthy   of  them." 
Though authorities come,  they won't separate  us from 
the love  of Christ.  The  love of  Christ never  shrinks 
back. Then  the  present appears.   There are so   many 
interests in this world. How splendid this world is! The 
world says that it can separate people  from the love of 
God.
  We read in  1Peter 1:24-25, "All  men are  like grass, 
and all their glory  is like the  flowers of the  field; the 
grass withers and the flowers fall,  but the word of the 
Lord stands forever." How  long do the interests  of the 
world last? They vanish  away in a  moment.  All men 
wither like grass and flowers fall.
  Likewise, the present  of this  world doesn't  separate 
us from the love of Jesus Christ. Then God says, "You, 
the future, come  on! Can uncertain  future separate my 
people from the love of Christ?"
  Romans 8:24-25   says, "For  in  this hope   we were 
saved. But hope  that is  seen is  no hope  at all.  Who 
hopes for  what he   already has? But  if  we hope  for 
what we do not yet have, we wait for it patiently."  We 
have hope. No matter  how terrible troubles  may come, 
since we have  glorious hope to  enter heaven and  hold 
the love  of  Jesus Christ,   uncertain future  will never 
separate us from the love of Christ.
  Now power  shows up  and insists  on separating  us 
from the love of Jesus  Christ by force.
  In 1 John 4:4, "You,  dear children, are from God  and 
have overcome them, because the one who  is in you is 
greater than  the  one who   is in  the world."  Though 
power comes and  forces us  to be  separated from  the 
love of Christ, it will fail because His love  for us is so 
strong. How does  the power of  the world  separate us 
from Christ?
  Then height comes  and says,  "We are so  high that 
we can overwhelm you." Yet the  pride of height is out 
of use, for no  one is higher than  God. God, who is  in 
the highest  throne, loves  us,  so where  is the   higher 
power to  stop His  love than  His power?  Then depth 
says that it  will stop  the love of  Jesus. Deep  despair 
and  frustration want  to stop the love of Jesus.
  According to 2Timothy  1:7, "God  did not  give us a 
spirit of timidity, but  a spirit of  power of love  and of 
self-discipline."   Fear  never   makes   us  disappointed 
because  Jesus  defeated  the  deepest  hell   and arose. 
That's why nothing  can separate  us from the  love of 
Christ. Then the Bible says anything else in all creation 
may come to stop the love of God in Christ.
  Romans 8:39 states, "Nothing else in  all creation, will 
be able to separate us  from the love of  God that is in 
Christ Jesus our Lord."
  In Matthew 28:20  also says,  "Surely I am  with you 
always, to   the very   end of   the age."  Who  in  the 
universe can  overwhelm Jesus   who lived, died,   arose 
and have both  authorities of life  and death? Since  the 
love of God in  this Jesus was  poured on us, who  can 
separate us from this love? No power separates us from 
the love of God in Jesus Christ. God loves  you through 
Christ with such tremendous love. As long as you  hold 
Jesus Christ in your hearts, no one will snatch  us from 
God.
  The Lord  says, "The  one who  gave you   to me is 
greater than the universe so no one will take you away 
from me." If we turn away from the  Lord, we can't be 
protected. If we  are against  Jesus Christ,  we may  be 
separated from the  love of  Jesus in  God. However, If 
we do not turn  away from God and  keep Jesus in us, 
no one will ever take us away from the  love of God in 
Christ. Now we are overflowing with  love. The love of 
God is  demonstrated  through Christ   and the  love is 
poured on you and me so that we may prosper in spirit 
with good health  and abundant  life. The love  forgives 
us, makes us righteous, fills us with the Holy Spirit and 
heaven. The love  also comforts, encourages,  gives joy, 
cares for  and heals  us. The  love feeds,  clothe, raises 
and makes us rich. The love rescues us from death and 
hell and  leads us  to  heaven where  there is   no tear, 
anxiety, grievance, parting, mourning nor sickness.  This 
is the love of God in Christ. This is also, "God so loved 
the world that He gave His only Son, and that whoever 
believes in Him shall  not perish but  have eternal life." 
Since we accepted  this love, we  have to be  impressed 
and thank Him for this love. God loves us so much that 
He greatly delights in us.
  Romans 8:31-37 states, "What,  then, shall we  say in 
response to this? If God  is for us, who can  be against 
us? He who did not spare His  own Son, but gave Him 
up for us all-- how  will He not also,  along with Him, 
graciously give  us  all things?   Who will   bring any 
charge against those whom God  has chosen? It is  God 
who justifies. Who  is he that  condemns? Christ Jesus, 
who died more than that, who was raised to life-- is at 
the right hand  of God  and is  also interceding  for us. 
Who shall separate  us from  the love  of Christ?  Shall 
trouble   or  hardship   or  persecution   or   famine  or 
nakedness or danger  or sword?  As it is  written: 'For 
your  sake   we  face   death  all  day   long;  we   are 
considered as sheep to be slaughtered.'  No, in all these 
things we are more  than conquerors through Him  who 
loved us." Where  do we  find those  who received this 
great love but Christians? We should  realize how much 
we are  loved  by God   and how much   great love  of 
Christ we are in.
  Furthermore, today we  eat and  drink the  proof that 
Christ loved us.  The love of  God is  not just a  word. 
Love must be proved.  The proof that God  so loved us 
is here.  Jesus so   loved us that  He  was crucified  in 
place of us and  shed His blood.  He died and made  us 
alive. That is love. By  bleeding, He saved us  from the 
devil, hell   and eternal  judgment. Only   by grace  and 
faith, He   redeemed us.   When we   take part   in the 
communion service, we  eat and drink  the love  of God 
revealed in  the communion.  When we  eat the  broken 
body and drink the cup, we  take God's love. Then you 
and I  become alive.   Love is the   work of God's   life 
which makes us alive forever.

-Prayer-
Our Father, God who has great love, we thank you that 
your   love   is   demonstrated   abundantly   in   Jesus 
Christ.Dear Father,  we believers  say with  lips,  "Lord. 
Lord." But they do  not understand how  great, glorious 
and mighty the love  of God is.  Please, help  us today 
acknowledge this love  and in  that love  let us  rejoice, 
delight and give thanks.  Those who do not  accept this 
love are so foolish. They will not find any place  to live 
after  rejecting  the  love  of  God.  They  will  become 
orphans in  the universe  and at  the last  they will  be 
abandoned. Our   Father, let  us deeply   receive in  our 
hearts  your  love   revealed today   and  become   your 
children and be saved. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
