Sunday, April 11th 1999
Title : He Who Counts the Stars
Scripture Reading : Gen 15:1-6

  Even in  the middle  of a   dark night, when  we see 
many bright stars in   the sky, we may  not feel it too 
dark. However, when  we cannot find  stars in the  sky, 
the darkness can be unbearable. When we find hope like 
a star in our  toilsome lives, we  don't have to  despair. 
On the other  hand, when we  cannot have hope  in the 
middle of  a dark  and toiling   life, it will  be the  end. 
Hope produces  a  dream, a  dream  produces love,  and 
love produces   faith. Our   Heavenly Father   welcomes, 
loves and  takes the  hands of  those who  march  forth 
with hope.

  First, think   about Abraham  in  the Old   Testament. 
Abraham followed  hope  throughout his  life.  When he 
was 75, in the dusk of his life,  God shed the light of a 
star of hope on him. The  hope God gave him produced 
dreams in him; his  dreams ignited the   flames of love 
and love produced faith.  He could, therefore, set  out to 
the new world. When we give up hope just because we 
are old, we will be  destroyed. Even when the  darkness 
of aging tries to sweep over us, as long  as we can see 
the stars of hope, we won't have to give up dreams for 
life. As long as we have dreams, we will have love, and 
as long as we have love, we will live in confidence.

  Abraham was a perfect example of this. When he was 
75 years old--older than  most retired people--God said 
to him, "Go  to the land  I will show  you. I  will make 
you into  a great  nation  and I  will bless   you; I will 
make your   name great."  God gave   him hope  like  a 
bright star. When  he accepted this  hope, he  became a 
man of dreams, man of love and man  of confidence. He 
took his wife's hand and set out to Canaan. He suffered 
in Canaan and went  down to Egypt.  He experienced a 
dark  night   of life   in   Egypt, being   miserable  and 
frustrated. When   he came  back  to Canaan,   God did 
nothing different in restoring Abraham  than give him a 
dream. As soon as Abraham  came back to Canaan, the 
Lord said to  him, "Lift  up your eyes  from where  you 
are and look  north and  south, east  and west.  All the 
land that you see I will give  to you and your offspring 
forever."

  God shed the light of the star of hope in the midst of 
darkness. God was saying,  "Although you may  despair, 
you will  be the   master of the   land. Look north  and 
south, east and  west and have  hope, dreams, love  and 
faith. Although Abraham had come back to Canaan with 
frustration  and  disappointment,  because  of  this  hope 
given by  God, he  began to  have brilliant  dreams. He 
began to feel the love for life and confidence in himself. 
Think about Abraham  when he  was 100.  It was very 
sublime for Abraham to  count the stars.  Since he was 
100 and  his  wife 90,   it was humanly   impossible for 
them to have  a child.  He faced  another dark night  of 
life. However, God shed the bright   light of the star of 
hope. As stars  can be seen  only on dark  nights, hope 
makes itself conspicuous  at a  time of  darkness. Don't 
say that there is  no light in  darkness. As stars  reveal 
themselves in darkness, hope reveals itself and comes to 
us when we are in darkness.

  According to  Genesis 15:5-6,   God took him   outside 
and  said,  "Look  up  at  the  heavens  and  count  the 
stars--if indeed you can count  them." Then He said  to 
him, "So shall  your offspring  be." God  was saying  to 
Abraham, "Why do  you look at  nothing but  darkness? 
Don't look at the earth or  the current situation. Lift up 
your eyes  and look  at heaven.  Although  the earth  is 
surrounded by  darkness, stars  twinkle  brightly in  the 
sky. Although  you are  going through  a  night of  life, 
being 100 years old and your wife 90, you have hope as 
long as  I am  with you.  Look at   me and have  hope. 
Your offspring shall be as many as the stars." Abraham 
believed  the  Lord,   and He   credited  it   to him   as 
righteousness. God gave him a son, Isaac, and Abraham 
became the father of Israel.

  Second, in   the New  Testament,  Jesus rebuked   the 
Israelites who   had no  dreams. When   He came  to a 
synagogue in His  hometown Nazareth,  He said  to the 
people at the synagogue in Luke  4:25-27, "I assure you 
that there were many widows in Israel  in Elijah's time, 
when the sky was shut  for three and a half  years and 
there was  a  severe famine   throughout the  land. Yet 
Elijah was not sent to any  of them, but to a widow  in 
Zarephath in the region of Sidon. And  there were many 
in Israel with leprosy in the time  of Elisha the prophet, 
yet not  one of  them was  cleansed--only Naaman  the 
Syrian." All the  people in  the synagogue  were furious 
when they heard  this. They got  up, drove Him  out of 
the town,  and took   Him to the   brow of the   hill on 
which the town was built, in order  to throw Him down 
the cliff.  Why were   they so furious?      Jesus was 
rebuking them fiercely because  they had forsaken hope, 
dreams, love and faith in God.

  In Elijah's  time, the  sky was  shut for  three and  a 
half years and   there was a  severe famine throughout 
the land.   Many starved  to  death. There   were many 
widows in  Israel but  they forsook  their hope  in God. 
They didn't have  dreams, love or  faith in  God.  That 
was why God  didn't choose any  widow in  Israel  but 
sent Elijah to  a widow  in Zarephath  in the  region of 
Sidon. As soon as she heard Elijah, she had hope and a 
dream for God. With  love and faith,  she made a small 
cake of  bread from  what  she had  and brought   it to 
Elijah. God blessed  her so  much that  the jar  of flour 
was not used up and the jug of oil  didn't run dry until 
the day the  Lord gave rain  on the land.  Although she 
was a gentile woman,  she heard the  word of God  and 
had hope, dreams, love and faith in  God. He had mercy 
on her and took  care of her, while  He deserted all the 
widows in Israel.

  There were many in Israel with leprosy in the time of 
Elisha the   prophet, yet  not one   of them  had  hopes, 
dreams, love or faith  in the Lord. Although  there were 
many in Israel with  leprosy, God didn't  send Elisha to 
any one of  them. Naaman  was a   commander of  the 
army of Aram,  Israel's enemy.  Bands from  Aram had 
gone out   and had  taken  captive  a young   girl from 
Israel, and she served  Naaman's wife. She  said to her 
mistress, "If only my master would see the prophet who 
is in Samaria! He would cure him of his leprosy." Upon 
hearing this, Naaman  had the hope  and dream that  he 
would be healed. With  love and faith  in God, he  came 
to Elisha in  Israel. Although  he was  a commander  of 
the army of Israel's enemy, since  he had hope, dreams, 
love and  faith  in the   Lord, God  cleansed him  from 
leprosy  while  He  didn't  cleanse  any  one  in  Israel. 
Therefore, we must  know that  God does  not look  for 
those who comply  with religious  ceremonies or  rituals 
but those  who  have hope,  dreams,  love and  faith  in 
Him. When we desert hope in the Lord, God will desert 
us for it.

  Psalm 62:5-6  says, "Find   rest, O my   soul, in God 
alone; my hope comes  from Him. He alone  is my rock 
and my   salvation; He  is my   fortress, I  will not   be 
shaken."

  Psalm 146:5 also  says, "Blessed is  he whose help  is 
the God of Jacob, whose  hope is in the Lord  his God." 
The Israelites  may have   heard the word  of  God but 
they didn't  have  hope, dreams, love  or faith.  This is 
the primary reason  why they  were forsaken by   God. 
The Bible  says that   people who have   no vision will 
perish. When we desert hope in God, God will desert us, 
too.

  Third,  we  must  know  that  we  will  have  to   go 
through a  desert  when we   give up  hope. When  the 
Israelites followed Moses  and came to  Kadesh Barneas 
after Exodus, they sent 12 spies to  explore the land for 
40 days and 40 nights. Ten of them gave a bad account 
about the   land. Since   they had  forsaken  hope,  they 
consequently forsook dreams,  love and faith.

  Numbers13:31-33 says, "But  the men  who had  gone 
up with him said, 'We  can't  attack those people; they 
are stronger than we are.'  And they spread among  the 
Israelites a bad report about the land they had explored. 
They said, 'The land we  explored devours those living 
in it. All  the people we  saw there  are of  great  size. 
We saw the  Nephilim there  (the descendants  of Anak 
come from the Nephilim). We  seemed like grasshoppers 
in our own  eyes, and  we looked  the same  to them.'" 
They completely gave up hope. They  had no dreams to 
enter the land of  Canaan. They also  gave up love  and  
faith in  God. All  the people  of Israel  who heard  this 
report also gave up hope, dreams, love and faith in God, 
too. As a result, God sent  them back to the desert and 
had them  wander around   in the desert  for  40 years, 
during which time, the rebels died there. A desert waits 
for those who have no hope or dreams.

  On the  other  hand, think   about Joshua  and Caleb. 
They also explored the  land for 40 days  and 40 nights 
with other   spies but   their report  was  full  of hope, 
dreams, love and faith.

  According to  Numbers  14:6-10, Joshua  son  of Nun 
and Caleb  son of  Jephunneh,  who were  among those    
who had explored the land, tore their clothes and said to 
the  entire  Israelite  assembly,  "The  land   we passed 
through and explored is exceedingly good. If the Lord is 
pleased with us, He  will lead us into  that land, a land 
flowing with  milk and  honey, and  will give  it to  us. 
Only do  not  rebel against  the  Lord. And   do not be 
afraid  of  the  people  of  the  land,   because we   will 
swallow them up. Their protection is gone, but the Lord 
is with us.  Do not  be afraid  of them."  They made  a 
bold  proclamation  of  faith.   They held   on  to  hope, 
dreams, love and  faith. As  a result, Joshua  and Caleb 
survived in   the 40  years in   the desert  and  led the 
descendents of Israel to  Canaan--the land flowing with 
milk and  honey with  the strength   like a 40-year  old 
although they  were about  80. Hope,  dreams, love  and 
faith will  lead  us to  the land flowing  with milk  and 
honey. Whether we will wander around in the  desert or 
whether we will  enter the land  flowing with  milk and 
honey depends on  if we  have hope,  dreams, love  and 
faith.

  Fourth, let us  think about  where we  can find  hope. 
The situations   we are   in are   depressing and   dark. 
Where can we  find stars to  count? Where do  we find 
hope? Even non-Christians can look at the sky and find 
stars in   a dark   night. How  much  more  should  we 
Christians find stars of hope when we look to God even 
in the midst  of the most  dreadful and dark  situations? 
Only those   who count  the stars   can enter  the  land 
flowing with milk and honey. Only those who count the 
stars can walk with God. Where can we find the stars? 
Jesus Christ who was crucified at Calvary is the star of 
our  hope.   Jesus  overcame   utmost  desperation   and 
brought  utmost  hope  through  the  cross  at  Calvary. 
When we look  at the  cross, we  will find  the star  of 
hope that we will be forgiven and made righteous.

  Romans 8:32-34  says,  "He  who  did not  spare his 
own Son, but gave Him up for us all--how will He not 
also, along  with  Him, graciously   give us  all things? 
Who will bring any charge against those whom God has 
chosen?  It  is   God who   justifies.  Who  is  he   that 
condemns? Christ Jesus, who died--more than that, who 
was raised to  life--is at the right  hand of God and is 
also interceding for us."  When we look at  the cross at 
Calvary,  although  we  are  sinful,  filthy  and  corrupt, 
deserving to be forsaken, we can  find the star of hope. 
There is hope in the cross at Calvary. We find the  star 
of hope that we will be forgiven;  that we will be made 
righteous; and  that we  can stand  before God   without 
shame. Even in the midst  of dark nights of  sins, when 
we lift up our eyes  and look at the cross,  we can find 
the star of hope. We used  to follow the patterns of the 
world. God does not dwell with the world. The world is 
filled with the devil and greed. People pursue the desires 
of the flesh, being filled  with envy, anger, jealousy and 
hatred, bound by the boastfulness of the world.

  Look at what happens in Kosovo now. Because of the 
greed of  politicians, so  many people  are trampled  and 
many lost their lives. This is what the world stands for. 
Where can we find  hope in this world?   When we lift 
up our eyes and look at the Lord Jesus Christ who was 
crucified, instead of  the world,  we will  know that  He 
brought heaven and the Holy Spirit, defeating the  world 
and the  devil. We  can  find  the  star of   hope there. 
When we look at the political situation of the world, we 
may find nothing  but total  darkness and  hopelessness. 
However, here is the star  of hope. Here is  the light of 
hope from  the cross   at Calvary. We  must  count the 
stars. The Lord has brought heaven and the Holy Spirit. 
Through the cross at Calvary, God becomes our Father; 
Jesus becomes our Savior; the  Holy Spirit becomes our 
Comforter; the word of  God is given to  us as spiritual 
nutrition; angels of heaven come and encamp around us; 
and heaven  will enter  in our   hearts. We will  live in 
heaven, tasting the glory of God.

  Galatians 4:6-8 says, "Because you are sons, God sent 
the Spirit  of his  Son into  our hearts,   the Spirit who 
calls out, 'Abba, Father.' So you are  no longer a slave, 
but a son; and since you are a  son, God has made you 
also an  heir. Formerly,  when you  did not  know God, 
you were slaves to those who by  nature are not gods." 
By looking at the cross at Calvary, we can find brilliant 
hope and dreams that we  will be transformed from  the 
slaves of the devil to  the children of God. The  light of 
the star of hope is always shed on us.  There are many 
sorrows in  the world.   It is said   that more than  300 
million people have melancholia. Since life becomes dark, 
people become   depressed and  melancholic. Since   they 
cannot find joy, they hate themselves,  hurt other people 
and sometimes  kill  themselves. People   groan in  pain, 
without being healed from physical or  spiritual diseases. 
There is pain everywhere.

  Where can we find the star of hope in such  a painful 
and dark night? When we  look at the cross at  Calvary 
and when we  look at Jesus  who carried  our pain and 
sorrows through His shed blood and  torn body, we can 
find the star of hope. We find joy from the  Lord at the 
cross at   Calvary. The  Bible  says that   He took  our 
infirmities and  carried our  sorrows. The   sorrows that 
He carried  were  ours. By   taking our  sorrows   on 
Himself, He has brought His joy to us.

  Romans 15:13  says, "May  the God  of hope  fill you 
with all joy and peace as you trust in Him, so that you 
may overflow   with hope  by the   power of  the  Holy 
Spirit." When we  look at  the cross  of Christ, we  can 
find the star of hope and  receive joy. We need joy,  for 
it becomes our strength. The Bible says, "Rejoice in the 
Lord always.  I will  say  it again:  Rejoice!" When  we 
lose joy, we  lose strength. There  cannot be joy  where 
there is no hope. There are dreams where there is hope. 
There is love  where there  are dreams.  There is  faith 
where there is love. There overflows joy where there is 
faith Not only that,  we can find  hope of healing  when 
we look at the cross. Even when we are suffering  from 
a severe disease,  even when physicians  have given up 
on us, and even when no medicine works, hope does not 
desert us. Even when we  are in total darkness  without 
any hope, when we look  at the cross at Calvary,  Jesus 
says to us, "By my wounds, you are healed. I took your 
infirmities and  your diseases."  When we  listen to  His 
word, He sheds the  light of hope  on us. Only  he who 
counts the stars  of hope  can be healed  from diseases. 
When a person looks  at his disease and  lives with the 
fear and threat of the disease, he cannot have tomorrow. 
He has nothing but the desert of  diseases. However, he 
who looks at the stars of  healing and counts them will 
enter the land flowing with milk and honey.

  Mark 16:17-18 says, "And these signs will accompany 
those who   believe: In  my name   they will  drive out 
demons; they will speak in new  tongues; they will pick 
up snakes with their hands; and when they drink deadly 
poison, it will not hurt them at all; they  will place their 
hands on sick people,  and they will get  well." We find 
hope here. I pray that you  will count the stars of  hope 
and healing.

  The famine in north   Korea is very  severe. I met a 
person who  recently went   to North Korea.   They cut 
power lines  of  electricity poles  and  sold them.   Since 
they don't  have the  power lines,  they use  iron cords 
instead. Their  lives are  beyond description.  More than 
300,000 children went to China, crossing the border,  and 
wander there in hunger. Almost all the 20 million  North 
Koreans are refugees. However, Jung-Il Kim has invited 
1000 scientists   from Russia   when the  former  Soviet 
Union collapsed   and treats   them very   well as  they 
develop new weapons. An Israel specialist says  that the 
weapons of North Korea are ten times superior  to what 
we have. They are spending  an astronomical amount of 
money with the desire to unite the Korean peninsula  by 
force and   communism while  putting the   people in  a 
miserable   state.    Their   hunger    and   poverty   is 
undescribable. We cannot support North Korea now even 
if the country is united again. What can we do with the 
20 million   refugees? It  is  far beyond   our capability. 
Therefore, we  must help  them  support themselves  by 
planting corn  in North  Korea, for  example, before  the 
reunification of the country. Where can we  find hope in 
such a dark situation? When  we look at the  world, we 
cannot find hope. However,  when we look at  the cross 
at  Calvary,  we  can   see the   light  of  hope.  Christ 
redeemed us from the curse  of the law by  becoming a 
curse for us, for it is written:  "Cursed is everyone who 
hung on  a  tree." He   redeemed us in   order that  the 
blessing given to  Abraham might come  to the gentiles 
through Christ Jesus. When we  preach the gospel after 
the reunification,   they will   also receive   the blessing 
given  to  Abraham.  We  cannot  help  them  by  other 
methods. When   Christ is  proclaimed in   North Korea, 
curses on   the land  will  disappear. When   curses are 
gone, and when  the blessing  of Abraham  comes upon 
them, the  blessing of  God  will be  on them   as Isaac 
gathered 100 times from farming.  When they  have the 
blessing of God, they will have hope.

  2 Corinthians 8:9  says, "For  you know the  grace of 
our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet  for 
your sakes He became  poor, so that   you through His 
poverty might  become rich."  Here is   the light of  the 
star of hope.
  2 Corinthians 9:8 says, "And  God is able to make  all 
grace abound to you, so  that in all things  at all times, 
having all that you need, you will abound in every good 
work." We have the light on us. This is why we should 
not give  up hope.   There are hope,   dreams, love and 
confidence. We can do it. From a  human point of view, 
we cannot expect the reunification of the country and  it 
may not   be better  to be   united. However,  from the 
perspective of   the cross,  we  find the   light of  hope. 
When we   preach the   gospel and  when  Jesus  takes 
possession of North Korea,  North Korea will  become a 
blessed garden.  Therefore, we  have hope.  We have  a 
dream. We   have love   and confidence   for tomorrow. 
When death--the most dreadful and darkest thing in the 
world--sweeps over us, if we lift up our  eyes and look 
at the cross, we can find the brilliant star of hope. Even 
when we breathe  our last, if  we lift  up our eyes  and 
look at the cross, we can find the  star of hope. By His 
death and resurrection,  Jesus put an  end to  death and 
hell.  The  long tunnel  of death  will  carry us  to the 
other side. We are not going to melt away in the tunnel 
but will be carried  to the other  side.  Death is only  a 
tunnel.

  That is why 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18  says, "Brothers, 
we do not want you to be ignorant about those who fall 
asleep, or to grieve  like the rest of  men, who have no 
hope. We believe that Jesus died and rose  again and so 
we believe that  God will  bring with  Jesus those  who 
have fallen asleep in Him. According to the  Lord's own 
word, we tell you that  we who are still  alive, who are 
left till   the coming  of the   Lord, will   certainly not 
precede those   who have  fallen  asleep. For   the Lord 
Himself will   come down   from heaven,   with a   loud 
command, with the voice of the  archangel and with the 
trumpet call  of God,  and the  dead in  Christ will  rise 
first. After that, we who are still alive  and are left will 
be caught up together with  them in the clouds to meet 
the Lord in the  air. And so  we will be  with the Lord 
forever.  Therefore  encourage  each   other with   these 
words." When we  look at  the cross,  darkness will  be 
driven away  by the  light of  hope. When   look at the 
light and count the stars of  hope, we will have dreams 
of heaven in our hearts and  we will be filled with love 
and confidence. Those who cannot look  at Jesus on the 
cross will have nothing but  dark frustrations. God does 
not dwell with those who  have no hope. He  drives the 
hopeless out to  the desert.  He gives dreams,  love and 
faith to those  who have hope.  Therefore, now that  we 
have come to Jesus, we should not  give up hope. Jesus 
Christ has become  the star  of hope  on the  cross. As 
God told  Abraham to  look at  the  sky and  count the 
stars, He says to us, "Lift up your eyes and look at and 
count the stars  of hope  that Jesus  established." When 
we look at  and count the  stars of hope,  we will have 
undying dreams,  love and  faith in  God and  man. We 
can have hope that tomorrow will  be better than today; 
next month better than this month; and next year better 
than this year.
