Sunday, June 6th 1999
Title : Those Who Came Upon the Robbed Man
Scripture Reading : Lk 10:30-37

  Today I would  like to  speak on "Those  Who Came 
Upon the Robbed Man." We live today in a  world filled 
with violence.   In the  comic  books  popular with   the 
youth, in the  videos and  movies, violence has taken  a 
firm  root.  Today's  societies  have  become  the  very 
victims of violence. On top of verbal violence, ostracism 
on every level of society, political violence, and physical 
violence against  the  weak are  prevalent.  It is  nearly 
impossible for people  to let their  guard down. In  such 
harsh reality, can we find a true neighbor who sincerely 
desire to help us? Christ tells us today concerning  such 
a good neighbor.

  First, there is a story  of a man who  was robbed. A 
man left Jerusalem for Jericho, coming face to face with 
a robber who deprived him of all his possession and left 
him for   dead after  a  beating.  The  man's travel   to 
Jericho from Jerusalem itself symbolizes a great tragedy. 
It symbolizes his fall. 
  Jerusalem was where God's temples  were and where 
praise and worship  took place. However,  this man  left 
God's temple, abandoned praise and worship, and headed 
for Jericho, a worldly  city. He followed  his carnal lust 
and desire for worldly gains  and headed for the  world. 
Of course he would be beset by a band of robbers.
  He lost  all he  had, was   beaten, and bleeding  from 
open wounds, the  man lay  by the  road. This passage 
tells  us   the  very   reason  why   man lives   amidst 
suffering. Adam and Eve left the Garden of Eden where 
God made his presence,  a place of  holiness, a place of 
praise and worship, a place of  blessing. Adam and Eve 
were tempted  by  Satan and   left the  holy place   and 
headed out   for the   world. God   does not   make his 
presence in  this world.
  This world is filled with  greed and wickedness. This 
world is filled with hatred, jealousy, anger, and revenge. 
Adam and   Even had  left  "Jerusalem",  came  to this 
world and  were set  upon  by Satan  and his  minions. 
They have fallen into the hands of  robbers and killers, 
to  suffer   condemnation.  As   such,  Adam   and  his 
descendants have been  beaten black and  blue. He died 
spiritually  and  he  was  torn   by resentment,   hatred, 
anger, and jealousy.  His physical  body became  ill and 
his very life became cursed, to  live in a land of thorns 
and thistles scratched and bleeding from their sharpness, 
to finally fall into hell after a miserable existence; A life 
beset by a band of robbers.
Today, all the people who live  in the world but do  not 
know God are ones set upon by robbers. As  such, they 
have lost all the precious things given them by God and 
now live   without any  direction  in life,   not knowing 
where they came from, nor where they are headed. Who 
can save such  a bruised  and bloodied man?  Who can 
help him?

  The second   thing Christ  mentioned  concerning  the 
robbed man is the people  who happened by the  robbed 
man. The first person to pass by the robbed man was a 
high priest. A high priest was a man who learned, kept 
and taught the  Biblical laws  to the  people. This  man 
saw  the   bleeding man,   severely  rebuked   him  and 
continued on his  way, shaking  his head this way  and 
that. Why did the high priest pass by and abandon  the 
man?
  God's law were  not given  to man  in order  to help 
him. The  law  was given   us to  bind sins.   The law 
exposes sins. Once  exposed, the  law judges.  As such, 
the law does not help and  support the people are ill  or 
weak,  but  rather,  the   law points   out  the  wrongs, 
exposes the sins  and once  exposed, strictly  abides by 
itself  to levie judgement. 
  As the  high priest  conformed strictly  with the  law, 
when he saw the bloodied man on the ground, he could 
not held a  helping hand. Instead,  he rebuked the  man. 
"Why in the world did you leave Jerusalem for Jericho? 
Why did   you live   the city  of  worship,  praise,  and 
prayers for the  world? You  are a  wicked sinner. You 
are  not  worthy  of  my  care  and  help."  The  priest 
rebuked, judged, and then walked away from the man.
  Today, many people try to  become righteous by way 
of the Law and conformity to  it. However, there is not 
a single person who  can become righteous through  the 
Law. God   did not   give the  Ten  Commandments  to 
Moses because He thought the  Israelites would be able 
to keep all of them. Rather, as  the fallen man began to 
pride himself  that he  could become   righteous through 
his own  deeds  and that   he was  self sufficient,  God 
chose the Israelites to represent  the man, and gave the 
Israelites the Ten Commandments.
  The Ten Commandments  were not given  to help  us 
live but to shed  light on how dark  and filthy our sins 
are. If God had  intended Salvation through the  Law, it 
would been possible  to comply  to them.  However, the 
Law was not meant  to be the way  to Salvation. After 
having gotten the laww from God, no Israelite has  ever 
kept all of them.
  The Bible states, all have sinned and none may reach 
the glory that  is God.  Having committed  sins against 
God and been judged  by Him, their  only recourse was 
the redemption of their  sins. That redemption  came by 
sacrificing the blood of some animal on God's altar. The 
lesson which God  teaches man is  that no  matter how 
much men  may try   to attain Salvation   through their 
observance of the Law,  it is impossible, and  none may 
be considered  righteous except  through a  shedding of 
blood as  atonement for   the sin.   While the blood  of 
animals can temporarily  atone for some  sins, it  is not 
the  eternal   solution. Although   countless number  of 
animals have been  killed with  their blood  flowing like 
the river,  it was   nothing more than  symbolic  of the 
Jesus Christ Who in order  to deliver us from  the Law 
and sin would die on  the Cross as our  sacrifice, to be 
torn and bleed for us.
  As such, today, it  is an act  of incredible foolishness 
to think we could attain Salvation through our deeds.  If 
God  came  today   to judge   us  with  the   Law and 
displayed all  our sins  upon the  screen for  all to  see, 
this sanctuary would be empty.
  As the crowd was about to stone a woman caught in 
the act of adultery, they  asked Jesus, "She was caught 
in the act of adultery. According to  the laws of Moses, 
she must  be stoned.  What do   you say?" Christ  bent 
down and began to scrawl  on the ground. He  probably 
wrote the   Ten Commandments  on the   ground. They 
badgered him some more, "What  shall we do with  this 
woman?" Jesus lifted his head and looked around at the 
crowd and  spoke seriously,  "Anyone  among you  who 
has not  sinned  may throw  the  first stone."  He  then 
knelt  back   down and   continued   scribbling on   the 
ground. Looking over His shoulders, we would  probably 
have seen   the sins   of every   person in  that  crowd 
exposed. All  sins according   to the Mosaic  Law.  The 
crowd realized  that if   they should stone   the woman, 
each one of them would  also be accused and would  be 
stoned. Every man who were so  ready to throw stones 
at the woman began  to disperse. In  a short while, the 
place was  quiet and  only the  woman was  still   left, 
cowering. Jesus Christ  spoke to  the woman,  "Woman, 
look around you.  Where are  your accusers now?"  She 
replied, "There are none." Christ continued, "Neither do I 
condemn you. go and sin no more."
  We can see that each  man who condemns another in 
the name  of the  Law will  himself be  judged by  that 
same Law.  There  is not   a single man   who can  be 
righteous under the  Law. Under  the brightness  of the 
Law, the  darkness and  the filthiness   of our sins  are 
exposed with   the Judgement   looming. We  must  not 
place our hope on the   Law. That Law cannot  provide 
Salvation. As  such, when  the  high  priest  could not 
help the man  who was robbed,  beaten, and left  to die 
by the road. Similarly, even as we shiver  from worries, 
troubles, anxiety, sense  of loss, despair,  sin and suffer 
illnesses, we cannot  depend on the  Law to provide  us 
with comfort. The Law only judges our iniquities.
  After the high  priest, a  Levite came  trodding down 
the road. The  Levite without  even a  word, shook  his 
head and went  on. Levites are  people who emphasized 
traditions.  Levites  came  to  the   temples, placed   the 
tablets of laws  where each belonged,  they cleaned and 
shined each artifact  in the  temple. They  were also  in 
charge of all ceremonies which took place in the temple.
  Today, the more a person is of  less worth within, he 
will make over is exterior. The more a person  is worth 
within, the less he cares about how  he looks. A person 
who lacks  inner value  will try  to look  as though  he 
didn't.
  A church which lacks the holiness of  God will try to 
decorate itself   in grandeur.   They decorate   the altar 
magnificently  and   the  pastors   garb  themselves   in 
spectacular and even  fearsome outer garments.  This is 
superficial makeover   with no  inner  worth.  They are 
magnificent   superficially.   Through   ceremonies   and 
traditions, they  want the  observer to  think greatly  of 
them. There is no life in ceremonies and traditions.
  The Levite who emphasized traditions saw the robbed 
man and did not lift even  a finger but walked right on 
past the man.  It would be  truly foolish  of you if  you 
thought ceremonies and traditions  could save you. It  is 
a great mistake to think that a grand  church with long 
tradition   and   ceremonies,   and  priests   who   wear 
spectacular garments as they  worship God and pray  to 
Him, can offer you Salvation through their ceremonies. 
  Salvation does not come by ceremonies and traditions. 
This is not  to say  that ceremonies  and traditions  are 
unnecessary. They are necessary.  They help greatly  in 
our faith lives to  make us holy.  However, they cannot 
provide Salvation. That is  why the Levite, although  he 
was a master of ceremonies could not save and help the 
man but passed by.
  A  little   while  later,   a Samaritan   on   a  donkey 
happened by and  saw the bloodied  man and  took pity 
on him. He  got off  the donkey  and cradled  the man, 
applying wine  and  salves on  the  man's wounds  and 
bandaged them. He  used his  own garment to  bandage  
the wounds, put him on  the donkey and headed  for an 
inn. Let  us think   about what the   Samaritan did. He 
didn't criticize  like  the high  priest  nor did   he allow 
tradition and ceremony  to prevent  doing a  good deed. 
The good Samaritan simply  took pity on the  man who 
lay half  dead, applying   salve and wine,   covering the 
wounds with his own garment.
  Who does this man symbolize? He is not a student of 
Moses' laws,  nor is  he a   man of ceremony  like the 
Levite. The good Samaritan is Jesus Christ. He came to 
this world because He pitied mankind. He did  not come 
to judge  us  nor did   he come  to teach   us elaborate 
ceremonies to decorate our  lives. Christ took  pity upon 
us and came  to heal  and save.  Through Jesus  Christ 
comes mercy  and compassion.  Just as  the Bible  says 
that  mercy,   not elaborate   ceremony,   is what   God 
desires, Christ also has great compassion for man.
  Can children trust their parents? Parents always have 
mercy for  their children.   However, it is   rare to find 
children who have mercy for their parents while parents 
always have   compassion. Whether   their children   are 
young, middle aged, or  near retirement, parents  always 
have compassion. They always have mercy for them.
  In much the same way, God sent Christ to this world 
because of His compassion  for man to  help us toward 
Salvation. Because of  His mercy for  us, God does  not 
judge us. Because  of His mercy  for us, God  does not 
apply the  law  to us.   Because of His   mercy for  us, 
Christ came  to us.  He died  on the  Cross for  us. He 
took our sins, our filth, our curse, and our despair upon 
Himself to be  torn and  to bleed.  After suffering  such 
torment,  Christ  bestowed  upon   us the   Holy Spirit, 
covered us with  His precious blood,  and bandaged our 
wounds with the bandage of his grace.
  Like the good Samaritan,  Christ applies oil  on us. If 
we are not anointed  with the oil  of the Spirit  of God, 
we can  never realize   Who Christ is   nor can we   be 
saved. As our spirits have died,  we are blind and deaf, 
unable to understand Salvation.  With the anointment of 
the Holy Spirit,  our spiritual  eyes become opened,  our 
spiritual ears are opened and we are able to  understand 
that Christ is our Saviour. 
  The Bible tells us, without the Holy  Spirit, none may 
understand that Christ is  Saviour. It is the  Holy Spirit 
who helps us  to understand. All  of you  have received 
the Holy Spirit making you understand about Christ and 
Salvation. Once we believe in Christ, He then covers us 
with His blood. 
  The blood which Christ shed  on the Cross was  shed 
for me and you. Through that blood, He has washed us 
clean of all  our sins,  past, present and  future, forever 
more.   In   the   blood   of   Jesus   Christ,   there   is 
righteousness and mercy. Through that blood, Satan and 
the world are  driven out from  within us,  and in their 
place, we have Heaven and the Holy Spirit. We  become 
citizens of Heaven. Christ did  not only shed blood.  His 
torn body   became our   bandages to   be put   on our 
bodies. His body became our bandages. He bandaged all 
our  wounds.  He  bandaged  our   hearts. In   place of 
worries, anxiety, despair, and sadness, we are filled with 
joy and happiness as we return  to Christ, and he heals 
us of  our ills  to free  us  from disease,  suffering and 
pain, and he heals our lives  to free us from the  thorns 
and  thistles  freeing  us  from  curse   and poverty,   a 
three-fold healing.
  In such way, Christ comes as a good Samaritan to be 
nailed on the Cross to have His body  torn, to shed His 
blood, so that He could  help us who have  been beaten 
and lying bloodied on  the side of  the road, to  take us 
into His bosom and to  help us back to  life. Christ has 
said,  the   thief comes   to   steal, kill   and  condemn, 
however, He  came to  give  life and  to make  life  the 
more abundant. The good Samaritan put the man on his 
own donkey and carried him to an in.

  Third, we  need to  realize what  the inn  symbolizes. 
That inn is the church. In Korea, there are about 50,000 
inns. The  Yoido Full  Gospel Church  is one   such inn 
leading to  Heaven. Christ  came  to the  inn with   two 
silver coins and a request to watch over the  man until 
He returned   and that  the  account would   be settled. 
When Christ departed  from us, He left something  with 
us. Christ did  not leave us  a plot of  land nor even  a 
piece of garment.
  Christ left us two silver coins; the Bible and the Holy 
Spirit. The two things which   Christ left with the  inn, 
the church, are the Gospel and the Holy Spirit. We have 
the Gospel of Christ  with us and  the Holy Spirit  with 
us. As Christ gave us the Gospel   and the Holy Spirit, 
He told the disciples to go and heal. 
The two things  which have the  power to  heal us are 
the Bible and the Holy Spirit. The knowledge, academia, 
nor philosophies of this  world have the  power to save 
us. The   wisdom and  the  knowledge  of man   cannot 
bestow  upon  us  life.  The  Word  of   God which   is 
unchanging even as the sky crumbles can only  heal us. 
The Holy Spirit  brings the  Word into  our spirits  and 
saves our  spirits, changes  our minds,  heals us  whole 
and brings us the glory of God.
  Christ did indeed give us two silver coins. Christ took 
care of the robbed  man with the  Word and the  Spirit. 
"Let this man be made well in all things as his spirit is 
made well, and  let him be  filled with health  and life." 
Church is a place of healing. A church which  does not 
heal and nurse the injured man has lost its function.
  Today, in the church  is where the  Holy Spirit takes 
the Word of God to heal, to nurse the injured man back 
to health, to  make his  life well  as his  spirit is  made 
well, in  health and  joy. The  church  offers this  great 
miracle of bestowing abundant life to man. 
  The church is a place of healing where the miracle of 
God is   manifested. Then,  the  man said,   if the  cost 
should run over  the two  silver coins,  he would  come 
back and  settle the  account. What  cost could  this be 
referring to? When the  church carries out  some  work 
for Christ, financial support is needed. The building  and 
the management of the church itself requires capital.
  It is written  in Matthew  6:20-21, "But  store up  for 
yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do 
not destroy,  and  where thieves  do not  break in  and 
steal. For where your treasure  is, there your heart will 
be also."  Building a  church  and running  it  requires 
capital. However, the  more we  spend for  the work of 
God, he  returns to  us  30, 60,  100 fold.   One way of 
having God repay us  when we enter Heaven  is for us 
to give tithes, offerings  for building churches and  such 
to run the inn  so that through  it, more people  can be 
brought to Christ. We are also  rewarded for supporting 
the missionaries through prayers and financially.
  It is  written  in IICorinthians   9:6,7, "Whoever sows 
sparingly will  also reap  sparingly, and   whoever sows 
generously will also  reap generously. Each  man should 
give what   he as  decided  in  his heart   to give,   not 
reluctantly  or   under  compulsion,   for God   loves   a 
cheerful giver." Our Lord  commanded us to do  mission 
work. Accordingly, our church does  great mission work 
every year.
  We have dispatched  and sponsor 537  missionaries to 
57 different nations. The 537 missionaries go out as our 
representatives to witness  the Gospel.  For the mission 
offering pledge which began recently, we have had only 
3902 people  make a  pledge.  The total  amount of  the 
pledges is  341,155,000  Won. Only   3902 people  among 
700,000 members of this  church pledge to give  offering 
for the missions. 
I believe the low number  is only the beginning.  I hope 
in the  name of   our Lord that   more of you   make a 
decision to pledge some  offering for the  mission work. 
This only places a greater debt for God when we go to 
Heaven. Christ  said He  would repay  us for  what we 
spend on Earth  for Him. For  missions and for  charity 
we must give our offerings.
  It is  written in  Proverbs 11:24-25,  "One man  gives 
freely, yet gains  even more;  another withholds unduly, 
but comes to poverty. A generous man  will prosper, he 
who refreshes  others will himself be refreshed."
  It is written in IICorinthians 9:9-10, "As it  is written, 
'He has   scattered abroad  his  gifts to   the poor;  his 
righteousness endures forever.'  Now  he  who supplies 
seed to the sower  and bread for  food will also  supply 
and increase  your store  of seed  and will   enlarge the 
harvest of   your righteousness."  We, in   the name  of 
Jesus Christ must support financially the  work to bring 
the sinner to the Gospel of Salvation in our societies.
  Today, there   are many  in  this world   who starve. 
Every minute, 34  people starve,  every day 50,000,  and 
every year,   18 million   people die   from hunger   and 
illness. They wait for  our helping hands, they  wait for 
our support. We  have recently begun  a drive  to  help 
the famine   stricken people   of North   Korea. So  far, 
36,702 people   have pledge  support in   the amount  of 
252,019,000 won. We have  so far sent  39 tons of  corn 
and  1,800 tons of  fertilizer. This is a  helping hand to 
our brethren suffering  in North  Korea  much  like the 
grace of Jesus Christ for the  robbed man dying by the 
road.
  Furthermore, the church  must spend  to promote  the 
training and study of the Bible. Through the  support of 
programs, we  must  foster the   growth of  children in 
Christ  who   can further   promote  the   expansion  of 
Heaven here on  Earth. For  this purpose, we  run  the 
Han-sei University as  well as the  Bethesda University 
in America, and  also the Soon-shin  university, so that 
through education   and training,   more people   can be 
taught   to  witness  the  Gospel  for  the  purpose  of 
promoting God's plan.
  Furthermore,  we   must  also   continue  to   support 
medical assistance to those in poverty.
  It is written in IICorinthian  9:8, "And God is  able to 
make all grace abound  to you, so that  in all things  at 
all times, having all  that you need, you  will abound in 
every good  work." God  blesses us   materially because 
He desires us to  use our blessings  for others. Do  you 
know what non-Christians say about the Christians?
  The May 20th issue of  Mission Today reported, 31% 
of non-Christians  believe Christians  to be   too selfish, 
23%  believe   Christians  have   character flaws,   19% 
believe Christians are hypocrites. The non-Christians do 
not think very highly of Christians.  We must take this 
into account  as  we repent  and  we must   extend our 
hands  to  the  people   of this   world  as  Christ  had 
extended his hand of mercy to the half dying  man. Our 
church has had  various collection  drives and  recycling 
movements such as clothing and loose change. One such 
movement has even  helped finance  heart surgeries  for 
over 3,000 children suffering heart disease.
  We  must  continue   to support   the  sick   and the 
suffering  through   both such   emotional  as   well as 
financial support. For the robbed man, Jesus was a true 
neighbor, and  those who  help  support such  work for 
Christ are also true neighbors.
Today, we  must also  likewise become  true neighbors. 
We have received  Salvation through Jesus  Christ Who 
had come to help us as we were beaten and half dying, 
and as such, we must  also accompany Christ and  seek 
out those  who  have been   beset by  robbers and  are 
lying by the  road, to  share the  Gospel, to  give them 
support and continue to expand the Kingdom of Heaven 
here on Earth. When we do so and our church fulfill its 
mission, non-Christians  will praise  us and  the church 
which in turn becomes God's glory.
  "Only my  Salvation  is important.  Only  I need   live 
well. What is it  to me whether  others die or  live?" If 
all of us thought  this way and  passed by the  man as 
the high  priest and  the Levite  had done,  what would 
become of this  world? We  must take  after our  Jesus 
Christ like the good Samaritan  and have hearts, full  of 
compassion and   mercy, to   practice love   rather than 
judgement, to   extend our   helping hands  rather  than 
ceremonies  and traditions.
  We must   with all  our  efforts witness   Christ, and 
teach others  about the  blood of  Jesus Christ  and the 
Holy Spirit, cover their wounds with our hands  of love, 
to  gather  together  in  the  inn,  the  church,  so  that 
everything in  their  lives can   be made  well as   their 
spirits are made well.  I pray that  each of you  become 
thus and firmly support  the missionary work to  glorify 
God's name. 

-Prayer-
  Oh, Holy Father God of Love. Today, it is difficult to 
find a good Samaritan. People  have all become like the 
high priests, judging  others, or  they have become  like 
the Levites, only  offering ceremony and  tradition. It is 
not easy to find  one who has  sincere desire to lend  a 
helping hand. Father  God, we  know that  Jesus Christ 
came to us as the good Samaritan to bear the Cross, to 
be nailed onto it, to be torn, and bleed. As a  result, he 
was victorious over sin and he gave us eternal life; We 
thank You. Thank You for being with us, holding us in 
Your arms, and taking  care of us. Oh,  Father, help us 
to inscribe   the words   of Jesus   Christ deep  in  our 
hearts. Help us to  acknowledge, welcome and trust  the 
Holy Spirit, to  witness the  Gospel to  the end  of this 
world to  all  people. We   pray in  the name  of  Jesus 
Christ, Amen.  
   
