Sunday, October 3th 1999
Title : The Absolutely Positive Life
Scripture Reading : Rom 8:28
 
  Can a   man live   the Absolutely  positive  life  with 
positivity toward  life  and the  future  no matter  what 
situation he is  in? With  the world  in so  much chaos 
and change happening at breakneck speed, it  is easy to 
tremble and  feel  a degree  of  anxiety. Recently,   with 
major  earthquakes  in  Turkey,   Greece, Taiwan,   and 
Mexico, we cannot even trust the very ground we stand 
upon. Where   in this  world  can anyone   live with  a 
positive attitude  no matter  what his  or her  situation? 
Today's Scripture answers this very question.

  First, the Bible tells us that  those who love God can 
have a foundation for a positive life. Why must we love 
our God? There are so  many things and people in  this 
world who call out for our  love. Why does the Creator 
of this  universe  need our  love?  Why must   we love 
Him? It is not difficult for children to love their parents. 
Parents have given birth to them and raised them;  it is 
natural for children  to love their  parents. In much  the 
same fashion,   God created  all  of  us, so   we should 
naturally love our  Creator. God  molded man  from the 
earth and blew  life into  him. We,  the created,  should 
worship and remember our Creator. He not only created 
us but   He saved  us who   betrayed him.  Ever since 
Adam and Eve,  man has  individually and  as a  whole 
rebelled, betrayed and sinned against God.
  Even today the world  is in the hands  of the wicked 
one and fails to worship and praise God, betraying Him.
  It is  written in   John 3:16, "For   God so loved   the 
world that he gave his one  and only Son that whoever 
believes in him  shall not perish  but have eternal  life." 
God loved   and still  loves  us  without condition.   We 
never asked  for the   sacrifice of His   Son. We didn't 
even know we needed  a Savior. Yet,  He sent His one 
and only   Son, allowed  Him to   be destroyed  on the 
cross, His  body  was torn  and  bleeding, and  through 
Christ God freed  us from  our sins and  saved us.  We 
must feel the  great love God  has for us  and learn  to 
love God in return. Once I  heard a story about a  boat. 
A salaried man  in Chicago wanted  a boat very  much. 
He saved  a little  money each  month, bought  building 
material for the boat, and worked on the boat whenever 
he had free time.
  One day  he finished  building his  beautiful boat.  He 
launched it on a  lake. He was so  moved to be  sailing 
his own beautiful  boat. After  sailing, he  tied his boat 
securely to   the dock,  but  that night   was extremely 
stormy. All night the winds blew and the waves hit the 
boat. In the morning, he ran to the dock to discover his 
boat missing. During the storm, the line had broken and 
the boat   disappeared into   the storm.   He was   truly 
grieved. In hopes of someone having found his  boat, he 
went  down   to  the   lake  whenever   he  had   time, 
wandering here and there.  At last, he  came to a  used 
boat lot  and saw  his boat  sitting on  the lot.  All his 
claims to the ownership  of the boat  came to no  avail. 
He then  scraped together   all the money  he  had and 
purchased his  own boat.  On the   way home the  man 
muttered, "Hey, you are  my boat because  I made you. 
You were lost and since I had to purchase you, you are 
doubly mine. You are very precious to me."
  When I   heard this  story, I   felt as  though I   was 
hearing God's  voice. Why  does God   love us so?  He 
loves us  because He  made  us, then  He lost   us and 
bought us with the precious  blood of Jesus Christ.  We 
are truly precious  to God.  That is why  God loves  us 
and loves  us again.   As we are   the objects of   such 
great love,  we must  naturally love  Him as  well. Not 
only that, God has prepared heaven for all  of us. When 
we  depart   from  this  world,   lose  all   our worldly 
possessions and cross the river of  death, through Jesus 
Christ we will be welcomed and will be led to the place 
prepared for us. We must thank and love God!
  It  is  written  in  Matthew  22:37-38,  Jesus   replied, 
'"Love the Lord your God with all your  heart and with 
all your soul and  with all your mind.  This is the first 
and greatest commandment."  We must have  a burning 
love for  God. We   must love God   more than money, 
status, fame, power and worldly pleasure. We  must ask 
ourselves, "How  much  do we   really love  God?" We 
should all ask  ourselves how  much love we  return to 
our God who loves us  so. Love makes a person  desire 
to stay close. Parents who  love their children desire  to 
stay close  to  them at   all times. Even   after children 
grow up  and leave  the nest,  they are  close in  heart. 
That is love.  A friend you  love always  stays in your 
heart. When   a husband   and wife  love  one  another, 
thoughts of their spouse  always remain in their  minds. 
They may  be busy   at work, but  their  thoughts still 
remain on  the object  of their   love. If you  love God, 
thoughts  of   God should   be  in   your  mind  at   all 
times--even when  you are  busy. You  do not  have a 
burning love for God if you forget God because you are 
busy, have so  much fun  in this  world, or have  other 
more pressing business. A  person with passionate  love 
can never get the object of his love out of his mind.
  When I was young, I used  to follow my mother into 
the kitchen and  help her  prepare dinner.  At the  time, 
the kitchen and the living quarters were quite far apart. 
But my mother  would suddenly  say, "Your  brother is 
awake. Be careful  while I'm  gone." And I  would say, 
"Mom, I  don't hear  him." Mom  would respond,  "Yes, 
son, he is  crying." My  mother could  hear my brother 
crying from afar and would run to him to  comfort him. 
Because my mother's  heart and mind  were filled with 
the thoughts of  my brother,  she could  hear him from 
afar.
  If we truly  love God,  our minds  will be filled  with 
thoughts of Him. No  matter what we  are doing, when 
we cannot forget about God even momentarily, that is a 
sign we  really love  God. Let's  think about  ourselves. 
Ask yourselves  how  much time  in  a day  you  think 
about God. If  you forget  about God completely  during 
the day, you need a major overhaul. You must  examine 
yourselves and repent.
  Love also makes a person desire to  serve. You serve 
God because you love  Him. Because parents  love their 
children,  they  change  their  diapers,   feed them   and 
nurture them.   In return,  they  really  require nothing. 
They serve because they  love. When a  wife loves her 
husband, she does  her work  whistling and greets  him 
with joy. She is happy to be his wife. It's the same for 
the husband. When he loves her, he works hard for  his 
family and  is always  joyous. He  is happy  to be   her 
husband. Every  Sunday  I see   so many  deacons and 
deaconesses who serve God by  directing traffic all day 
long; their legs are exhausted. Still, they are  all joyous. 
None of them care whether they are  recognized. It is a 
labor of love.  They do this  because they  love God. If 
we love  God, we   serve Him wholeheartedly.   Without 
exception,   we  should   keep   the   Sabbath;  without 
exception, we should  give our  tithes with thanks,  and 
we should look for other services to render unto God.
  It is  written  in Malachi  3:10-11,  "Bring the   whole 
tithe into the storehouse, that there may  be food in my 
house. Test me in  this,' says the Lord  Almighty, 'and 
see if I  will not  throw open the  floodgates of  heaven 
and pour out so  much blessing that you  will not have 
room enough for it. I will prevent pests from  devouring 
your crops, and  the vines  in your fields  will not  cast 
their fruit." The  recent storm  has ruined the  crops of 
many farms. No matter how  much work a farmer may 
put into his farm, if a storm floods the  paddy, a year's 
crop is ruined. Rice grains which become wet will  start 
sprouting and cannot be eaten. When we toil and  work, 
it is   God who   protects our  work.  We  can harvest 
abundant crops  only when  God  protects us  from the 
elements and from pestilence.  When we show  God our 
love by   keeping the  Sabbath,  giving our   tithes and 
serving God when we can, then God speaks to  us. God 
tells us that  He loves those  who love  Him. We must 
demonstrate our  love by  giving of   our time and  our 
bodies to serve and to work  for God. Also, love makes 
a person desire  that others are  happy, and makes  one 
want to praise that person. How do  you feel when you 
meet loved ones? How  happy were your  parents when 
you visited them this Chusok? This is love. How happy 
are you to see an old friend whom you truly love? This 
is love. You  need to have  this kind of  joy in serving 
God. We should be coming  to church excited and  with 
great joy because we  come to meet  with God. As  we 
begin worship  service, we  should be  excited. We  are 
about to have fellowship with God. If we do this out of 
obligation, as a duty, there is no love in it. Love makes 
us happy, joyous and proud of the object of our love.
  It is written in Psalm 100:  3-4, "Know that the Lord 
is God. It is he who  made us, and we are his;  we are 
his people,  the sheep  of his   pasture. Enter his  gates 
with  thanksgiving  and  his  courts  with  praise;  give 
thanks to him  and praise his  name." We must  always 
have love for  our God  at all times.  When we  receive 
God's love and  love Him in  return, God watches  over 
us and helps us to live with positive attitudes.

  Second, the Bible  tells us that  those who  are called 
according to  God's  will can   be with  God and   have 
positive attitudes. Those who obey their parents receive 
the love of  their parents.  He loves  wives who  follow 
the will of their husband. It is common sense . . . when 
we live according to God's will, God is pleased with us. 
However, if we  disobey and  rebel against  the will  of 
God, can God love us? What does  it mean to be called 
according to  His will?  It means  knowing  the will  of 
God and obeying it.
  God's will is  stated in 1  Thessalonians 5:16-18, "Be 
joyful  always;  pray  continually;   give thanks   in  all 
circumstances, for this  is God's will  for you in  Christ 
Jesus." This will  of God can  be implemented in  all of 
our lives. The Bible tells us  to give thanks even when 
there seems  nothing to  be thankful   for, pray to  God 
concerning all   things, big  and small.   We must  give 
thanks  to   God  for   all  things,   whether  they   are 
seemingly good or seemingly bad.
  A pastor from the Full Gospel Church in Dae-jun  led 
his congregation in  the Sunday  worship service.  Then 
on his way down from the  pulpit he fell and broke his 
ankle.  He   had a   cast  put   on it.   The  cast   was 
uncomfortable and  it was  embarrassing  to be  on the 
platform with it. Because of the cast,  he couldn't stand 
and preach. So he propped up his  leg on a chair as he 
delivered the   sermon. He  wondered  what the   people 
must think as he  sat in a chair  with his legs propped 
up on another chair so he could  preach his sermon. He 
thought, "How can I be thankful  to God? I'm supposed 
to be thankful for all things, but how can I be  thankful 
for having  a  broken ankle   and preaching  like this?" 
Then he heard a  voice saying, "Hey,  you. Be thankful 
your neck wasn't broken." The pastor replied, "Oh Lord, 
if I had broken my neck going down the  steps I would 
be paralyzed  completely. Thank  you Lord  that I  only 
broke my ankle."
  We can't   be thankful   to God   if we   are always 
looking up. When we  look down, we can  see so much 
to be thankful for. Do you see many who are worse off 
than you? What kind  of man does God  find joy in? It 
is a man who has  joy and thanks in his  heart always. 
The fact   that Jesus   Christ has   become our   Savior 
should be enough  to beget our  thanks. We  have been 
saved from  this cursed  world  and will  go to  eternal 
heaven. We  should be  thankful! God   also tells us  to 
pray to him  for all  things big  and small  because He 
wants to hear our prayers and He wants to help us. He 
tells us to  be thankful  in all  things because  although 
we may think  there is  nothing to it,  in the  long run, 
everything will turn out for our good. Because God  has 
made His plan with eternity in mind,  all may not seem 
perfect now.  At times,  the  present can  be miserable. 
However, God sometimes allows  these things to  let us 
suffer because  He has   planned greater things   for us 
eternally. You should not be thankful for just the sweet 
things in life,  but also for  the sour  drops in this  life. 
We receive them because God loves us. For us to know 
the special will of  God we must continue  to study the 
Word of God.
  It is written in Psalm 119:105,  "Your word is a lamp 
to my  feet and  a light  for my  path." Because  God's 
Word is a lamp  to our feet and  lights the way in  the 
darkness, to know  His will we  must study His  Word. 
When we have studied God's Word diligently and times 
comes when we  feel lost, the  Holy Spirit will  help us 
remember God's Word. 
When we store God's Word in our mind, then the Holy 
Spirit will help us remember  it. For us to  know God's 
special will for us, we must  diligently study His Word. 
We can also learn of God's will  as we pray. When we 
cannot decide which way  to go and we  earnestly pray 
for  God's   guidance,  we  can   experience  a   sudden 
realization from God.
  It is  written in  Psalm 143:10-11,  "Teach me   to do 
your will, for  you are my  God; may  your good Spirit 
lead me   on level  ground. For   your name's  sake, O 
LORD, preserve  my life;  in your   righteousness, bring 
me out  of  trouble." In  such  a way,   the Holy Spirit 
comes to us suddenly with answers  to our prayers. He 
clearly helps  us decide   right and wrong  as  if we're 
seeing in   daylight. God  also  makes His   will known 
through dreams and prophecies. However, this is a very 
rare case. Such dreams are seldom given to people.
  It is written in  Joel 2:28, "Your  old men will  dream 
dreams, your   young men  will see   visions." In  some 
special  cases,   God does   indeed   show visions   and 
dreams. To most people, however, God gives desires  as 
is written in Philippians 2:13. Repeat after me, "For it is 
God who works in you  to will and to act  according to 
his  good  purpose."  God   teaches us   His good   will 
through desires. As you pray  in earnest, you will have 
certain desires. The desires  keep entering my  heart. A 
desire to  make a  home visit  of someone  enters your 
heart. A desire to go and see someone will continue. Do 
this, do this,  and do this,  the heart  keeps telling you. 
God is showing  you His  will by giving  you a  desire. 
For most   people, this   is how  God  makes  His  will 
known as people pray for guidance. God also makes His 
will known to us through circumstances. No matter how 
much you want to go  down a path, God  blocks it and 
opens another. Or you meet  an unexpected person who 
guides  you.   Christians  must   take  heed   of  things 
happening around them. God  does indeed often  lead us 
this way.  For  a Christian   who prays  earnestly, God 
uses desires or  circumstances so  that we  may realize 
His will and  follow a  path He  has opened.  We must 
always take heed.
  It is written  in Ephesians  5:15-17, "Be very  careful, 
then, how   you live   ? not  as  unwise  but  as wise, 
making the most of every opportunity, because the days 
are evil."  We must  always be  on guard  to recognize 
God's will. Those who love God and are called by  Him 
know His will  and obey His  will. These are  the ones 
through whom God will do good.  The good things that 
happen to  us are  great. But   bad things also  happen. 
However, God   tells us  that He   transforms even  the 
negative things for good. What are the negative things? 
These are  negative  things: being  sick,  failing school, 
losing a job, failing in business, being passed over for a 
promotion, and losing  property. However, we  must not 
become depressed over them.
  When I was  leading the  church at  Seo-dae-mun, a 
daughter of a rather famous scholar became a victim of 
a broken marriage engagement.  She was so  distressed, 
depressed and sad  as she  asked me,  "How could this 
happen?   How  can   they  so   bluntly   call  off   the 
engagement?" I   told her  quietly,  "Haven't  you lived 
your entire   life always   loving God   and striving   to 
follow His will? Don't be so saddened by what you see 
now. Perhaps a  marriage to this  man will bring  some 
terrible tragedy  some day.  You must  realize God  has 
intervened for   you and  prevented  the marriage.   God 
finds you  righteous and  desires  to do  His good   will 
through  you.  This  broken  engagement  will  turn  to 
something great some day.  Don't be discouraged." You 
know, some   time later   she met  another  man  much 
better than the first man. I tied the knot for them and I 
believe he was 10  times better. He was  well educated, 
kind and had deep faith.
  Today, they have  a son  and a  daughter and live  a 
wonderful life.  God  did His   good will.  Don't lament 
thinking that things around  you today are all  negative. 
To  a   non-Christian,  it   will  remain   so.  However, 
Christians live holding on  to God's hand and  in God's 
providence. To the  ones who  love God and  are called 
by Him,  all things   will turn out   according to God's 
good will.
  It is written in Deuteronomy  4:30-31, "When you are 
in distress and all  these things have  happened to you, 
then in later  days you  will return  to the LORD  your 
God and   obey him.  For  the  LORD  your God   is a 
merciful God;  he will  not abandon  or destroy  you or 
forget the   covenant with  your  forefathers, which   he 
confirmed to them by oath." Even amid a terrible storm, 
if we trust in God, all will turn to good in the end. We 
must trust God's providence,  which turns all  things to 
good. Those who love God and try to  live according to 
His will must  lift up their  eyes and  look far into  the 
distance with hope and confidence rather than lamenting 
about the present.
  It is written  in Ecclesiastes  7:13-14, "Consider  what 
God has done:  Who can straighten  what he has  made 
crooked? When  times are  good,  be happy.  But when 
times 
are bad, consider that God has made the one as well as 
the other.  Therefore, a  man cannot  discover  anything 
about his  future." Be  glad when  things go   well, and 
when they   don't, remember  God  who turns   all bad 
things to good according to His will and be happy, pray 
and give thanks.
  Our   lives  are   like   needlework.   When  you   do 
needlework and  turn the  fabric over,  it looks  a mess 
red threads,  blue, and  yellow threads  all in  a tangle. 
What can  come from  this? However,  once it  is done 
and you flip it over,  you can see a picture  of beautiful 
flowers near   a pond  where birds   and butterflies  fly 
overhead. When  God's  providence is  at  work in  our 
lives, the red, blue and the yellow threads may seem to 
be in  a terrible  jumble much  as bad  things seem   to 
happen to   us. We  may  lament  about  our miserable 
condition and destiny. However, when we look back, we 
will see beauty coming from them. We will realize  how 
all things came together to do God's good will.
  Joseph was sold  by his  brothers to become  a slave 
and work his bones for  10 years. Then he  was falsely 
accused by Potiphar's wife and  had to spend two  long 
years   in    prison,   a   truly   deplorable    chain   of 
circumstances. However,  he  didn't despair   but as he 
continued to trust God, he  became a head minister and 
governed over all of the  Middle East. Jacob took all  of 
his children   and went  to  Egypt. With   the death  of 
Jacob, Joseph's brothers feared for their lives and  came 
to   Joseph.   "His  brothers   then   came   and  threw 
themselves down before him. 'We are your slaves,' they 
said. But Joseph said to them, 'Don't be afraid. Am I in 
the place of  God? You intended  to harm me,  but God 
intended it for  good to accomplish  what is  now being 
done, the   saving of   many lives.  So  then,  don't be 
afraid. I will provide for you and your children.'" Let us 
examine Joseph's wisdom.  "You intended  to harm  me, 
but God intended it for good…"
  We must  realize that   all the seemingly  bad  things 
coming our  way are  transformed  by God.  Since God 
always walks beside us no matter how dark our despair 
and depression may be, we must be able to look toward 
the dawn. After the  darkness of night, God  causes the 
sun  to  rise  in   its entire   splendor.  Where  God  is 
concerned, the   end is  always  much  better than   the 
beginning. Although we  may think  our beginning  was 
not much, the end  is always wonderful.  To those who 
love  God  and  are  called  by  Him,  all  things  work 
together  to  do  God's  good   will. Even   in absolute 
despair, we can find  absolute joy because  God is with 
us. Repeat after me,  "To those who  love God and  are 
called according to His will, God will do His good will." 
Tell the people next to you, "You have a good destiny." 
When we have such  knowledge, we can  have absolute 
faith as we look toward a wonderful  future. We do not 
have to   despair nor   become negative   about present 
circumstances. We must always be joyful,  always pray, 
and always give  thanks with positive  attitudes. Think, 
"My future  is  positive. I   will not  despair about   my 
circumstances. Although I cannot see with my eyes nor 
hear with my ears, nor  feel with my hands,  I will not 
despair." God will indeed  make a bright  future rise up 
with the   sun. I   pray that   each of  you  have  such 
positive faith in Christ.

-Prayer-
  Oh God of love, no matter  how dark our nights may 
be, You always bring us a sparkling morning. Although 
we may cry and lament, help us look toward the bright 
tomorrow and  always have   positive attitudes for  life. 
Tomorrow will  be better  than today,  and next  month 
will be better than this month. We know that the future 
in You is much better than anything today can offer us. 
Oh Father, help us serve you, give  our thanks and live 
in faith. We  know that  You Who  gave us  Your Son 
will not begrudge us anything at all.  Who can confront 
us when  you  are with  us?  Oh God,   thank You for 
making us believe in You and serve You. I  pray in the 
name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

