Sunday, July 4th 1999
Title : There's Always Problems in Our Lives
Scripture Reading: Hebrews 5:7-10

  We will   always have  problems  in our   lives. Only   
when we enter  the grave, we'll  have no  problems. At 
the end of the First World War, the American president, 
Wilson,  pushed  ahead  with  the   organization of   the 
League of   Nations to  bring  permanent peace   to the 
world. However, this  historical dream  was rejected  by 
the Senate. The president was  shocked, got fatally sick 
and was   dying. He   was filled  with  resentment  and 
hatred against  the Senate  and always  said, "The  bad 
senators   are  killing   me."  Then   Napoleon   Hill,  a 
philosopher  and   the secretary   of   President Wilson, 
visited him   and admonished  him saying,   "Lord, your 
dream is great.  It is  a big  loss for  the dream  to be 
rejected by the Senate.  But lift up  your eyes and look 
afar. A  hundred  years from  now,  it won't  matter  if 
there will be a League of  Nations or not. This incident 
is  so  small   in history   that  it  will   be completely 
forgotten   by  people.   Therefore,  forget   about  your 
resentment and  forgive them  and have  peace in   your 
heart." President Wilson was  shocked and paralyzed on 
one side by high blood pressure and  died, but now few 
people remember him and the organization of the League 
of  Nations  after  the  First  World   War. They   have 
disappeared in   history. The  problem of   an individual 
goes away  with his  death. Yet,   those who are  alive, 
problems follow them like shadows.
  In the  Old Testament  in  the Bible,  even the   great 
servants blessed  by God  had  problems in  their lives. 
Look at Abraham.  At 75, he  left his hometown,  Ur of 
the Chaldeans, for  Canaan. But when  he arrived there, 
there  was   a severe   famine  and   he  faced  serious 
problems. He ran out  of food and  water that his  wife, 
his nephew, Lot,  his servants, and  his relatives should 
have. His livestock were famished and they all died.  He 
was extremely distressed and troubled  by these serious 
problems. He   was the   servant chosen   by God   and 
blessed by  Him but   he also had   problems. He went 
down to  Egypt  to live   there for awhile   because the 
famine was  severe. But  Pharaoh  deprived him  of his 
wife and he spent his time  shedding tears. He was not 
exempt from problems.  Later, by  God's mercy, he  got 
his wife  back and   returned to Canaan.   However, the 
land couldn't support  them, for  their possessions  were 
so great. Quarreling arose between Abraham's herdsmen 
and the herdsmen of Lot. He  faced this kind of terrible 
problem. He was  a great man  chosen by  God, but he 
had problems.
  At 85, while  he was living  in Canaan, at  his wife's 
plea, he   slept with   her maid-   servant, Hagar,  who 
became pregnant.  Then there   were terrible arguments 
between his   wife, Sarah,   and Hagar.   Abraham was 
confronted with  a serious   family problem. He  had  to 
drive out Hagar but  the angel brought  her back home. 
At 100,  he begot  a son.  When the  son was   weaned, 
Abraham's wife, Sarah, saw Ishmael, the  son of Hagar, 
laughing at  her son,  Isaac. Sarah  became very  angry 
and asked Abraham  to expel  her maidservant  and her 
son,  Hagar.  So   Abraham drove   out  his  concubine, 
Hagar, and his son, Hagar.  Do you think Abraham had 
no problems?  He was  chosen by   God and called  the 
father of  faith. Yet, his life was full of problems.
  Do you think Joseph, who delivered the Israelites from 
famine, had no problems? At  17, he was envied by  his 
brothers and sold by them to the Arabian  merchants as 
a slave and taken to Egypt. Far away from  his beloved 
father, he became a  slave for Potiphar, the  body guard 
of Pharaoh. His  troubles and sorrows  as a slave  were 
inexpressible. He served God and was loved by Him the 
most among his brothers. Yet he had problems. He was 
involved in many problems.
  Ten years   after his  slavery, he   became Potiphar's 
attendant in  charge of  his  household. But  because of 
Potiphar's wife,  Joseph  was put  in  prison, where   he 
spent two  years in  tears. Did  he have  problems?  He 
kept   having  big   problems.  At   30,  he   interpreted 
Pharaoh's dreams and became a  prime minister. During 
seven  years  of  famine,  after  seven  years   of great 
abundance, he alone had to deal with  all the matters to 
feed all the  Egyptians and the  Philistines. Later,  when 
his brothers came  to him  to ask  for help,  he forgave 
them and fed  them, too. He  had so many  problems to 
solve. Likewise, the great servants in the Old Testament 
such as Moses, Abraham and Joseph all had problems.
  In the  New Testament,  those who  depended on  the 
blood of Christ  and were  saved by  God's grace,  also 
had problems. Though  we receive grace  and blessings, 
problems follow us in our lives.
  Look at Peter. He was  the head of Christ's disciples, 
but he   denied Him  three  times. He   swore to  Jesus 
saying, "I will  go everywhere  with you  in prison and 
even  to   death."  But   when  Jesus   was  caught  at 
Gethsemane, he fled. When Jesus was judged by Annas 
and Caiaphas, Peter followed  Jesus, but he  denied Him 
before a little girl and the third time he cursed Him and 
swore, saying, "I  don't know  Him at  all." Because  of 
that, he was  severely distressed  in his  heart. He was 
struggling from his guilt.  When he saw  Jesus hanging 
on the cross and dying there, he  felt terribly guilty. He 
lost everything  and  was frustrated.   Although he met 
Jesus Who rose from the  dead, he was so disappointed 
that he  gave up  becoming His  disciple. To  become a 
fisherman again, he  went down  to Galilee, washed  his 
old net and repaired his boat. He  was such a miserable 
man.
  On the day  of Pentecost, he  began his ministry  and 
kept being put  into prison  and being flogged.  He was 
captured by  King Herod  and sentenced  to death.  One 
day before he  was to be  killed, the angel  of the Lord 
appeared  and   opened the   door   of the   prison  and 
fortunately  he  survived.   Later, while   preaching  the 
gospel in Rome,  because of  severe persecution, he  ran 
away. On his  way, he  saw Jesus  walking into  Rome. 
He asked, "Lord,  where are you  going?" He answered, 
"I'm  headed  for  Rome  to  care  for   the sheep   you 
deserted." At that,  he repented  deeply and  returned to 
Rome and was  caught there. It  was said that  he was 
crucified upside  down,  for he   insisted that  he didn't 
qualify because he betrayed the Lord. The great servant, 
Peter, continued   to have   problems during  his  whole 
lifetime.
  When Saul was on his way to Damascus to persecute 
Christians, suddenly  in a  light  from heaven  the Lord 
showed up and said, "Saul, Saul, why  do you persecute 
me?" He   asked, "Who   are you,   Lord?" "I'm   Jesus, 
whom  you  are  persecuting."  He  replied.  Then  Saul 
became blind. He went to Damascus and there a disciple 
named Ananias placed his hands on him. He believed in 
Jesus and received  the Holy  Spirit and  his sight  was 
restored. While   preaching the   gospel of  Christ,  Paul 
used to be  chased by  people often and  run away.  As 
soon  as  he  believed  in  Jesus,  he  faced  many  big 
problems.
  When he  entered Jerusalem,   the people treated  him 
very coldly. Because he persecuted the believers and put 
them into prison,  no one  welcomed him. Some  women 
who believed in Jesus intended to kill him so he fled to 
his hometown, Tarsus. He prayed in the desert for three 
years and waited upon the Lord.  He took three mission 
trips to other countries. But  wherever he went, he was 
flogged, put   into prison  and shipwrecked.   Paul faced 
problems over and over again. At last, he was beheaded 
in Rome.
  You think,  "I have   many problems in  my  life: the 
problems of my husband, wife,  children, work, business 
in my own life.  It is too hard  and distressing to live." 
Many people think that way and they are frustrated and 
sad. However, the great servants of God, who lived long 
ago, were blessed  by Him,  but they all  had problems. 
There was only  one who lived  without sin.  That was 
Jesus. Even  He, for  33 years,  faced terrible  problems, 
was persecuted, and in the long run He was crucified.
  There is no one without  problems. Job said, "Man  is 
born  to  trouble   as surely   as  sparks   fly upward." 
Likewise,  in  our   lives, there   are  always  problems. 
Therefore, do   not think,  "I  have  problems so   I am 
abandoned by  God; I  have  little faith,  I have  failed." 
The great  warriors of   faith also had  troubles.  Those 
who faced awful  troubles and trials  were not forsaken 
by God but chosen by  Him. We have to  know how to 
solve our problems and how to live in  God's grace and 
blessing. Everyone has  problems. If  you want to  meet 
those who   have no  problems,  you better   go to  the 
cemetery  located  at  the  fasting  prayer  mountain  in 
Osanri. There  the dead  people have   no troubles. Yet, 
you who  are alive  have problems.  Therefore, to  have 
problems proves   you are  alive.  You must   not think 
negatively, "Since  I have  problems, I  am forsaken  by 
God. God loves me very  little. I have  little  faith." We 
should overcome our  problems and make  them food in 
our lives. How can we overcome our problems?

  First, we  have  to accept   problems as  our destiny. 
When people face problems, they complain, "Why should 
I have this  trouble? Why  not Mr. Kim,  Park or  Cho? 
Why me?" They  say over  and again,  "Why me?"  On 
the  contrary,  we   should consider   problems  as   our 
destiny. Destiny  is predestined   by God. Our  destinies 
are all different.  We can't avoid  what God predestined 
for  us.  It  is  your  destiny,  so   please do   not say, 
"Because of someone else, I have terrible trials." Or you 
may resent God,  saying, "Why doesn't  God love  me?" 
How do  we know  how  God works?  We don't  know 
what will take place  in just a  moment. God is  always 
working. So how do we understand His works and why 
do we  complain against  Him? Good  can come  out of 
bad things.   Trials can  be  turned to   happiness later. 
That's why we  should not  resent God  when we  face 
problems.
  When we   have troubles,  we may   have anger  and 
enmity against   our neighbor  saying,  "I am   suffering 
because of  you."  We have   to eliminate  that kind  of 
thinking. In   our circumstances,  if we   experience any 
trouble, we should consider it our destiny from God and 
we should  not resist  it but  accept it  in our  lives. In 
mankind,  problems   resulted  from   the  sins  of   our 
ancestors and from us. Due to the sins of our ancestors, 
human   beings,   nations,   societies   and   individuals, 
problems are going on without ceasing on this earth.
  Psalm 107:10-12 says, "Some sat in  darkness and the 
deepest gloom,  prisoners  suffering in   iron chains, for 
they  had   rebelled against   the  words   of  God  and 
despised the counsel of the Most High. So He subjected 
them to bitter  labor; they stumbled,  and there  was no 
one to  help." You   must remember that   our problems 
were so serious that  God Himself came  as a man and 
to solve our problems  He shed his blood  on the cross. 
Do not complain  to God about  your problems. Because 
of our problems,  God Himself  came to  this earth  and 
had to die on the cross.
  Recently, at Sealand, 23 young  kids were burned and 
they died. I was severely distressed by this. They  were 
too young to protect  themselves. Imagine how  troubled 
and frightened they were  in a burning  fire.  I shudder 
just to think  about it.  Why did  this happen  to them? 
Why  did  this   problem come   about?  It   took place 
because of the  sins of  many people.  Officials received 
bribes and permitted a wicked offer. The man who built 
Sealand  did  not  observe  the  national  regulations  of 
architecture. The  teachers didn't  care for  the children 
and they  enjoyed  eating and  drinking  by themselves. 
Due to the sins  of many adults,  the children lost their 
lives at  Sealand. Who   do we resent   for this serious 
problem? It was caused by  the sin of man. To  remove 
that sin of man,  Jesus suffered on  the cross, shedding 
tears  and  struggling,  and  He  ultimately  experienced 
death, didn't He?  Therefore, the  sin made  by man  is 
very serious.
  Isaiah  53:6  says,  "We  all,  like  sheep,  have  gone 
astray, each of us has turned  to his own way; and the 
Lord has  laid on  Him the  iniquity of   us all." Hence, 
when we have problems, we should  not resent God nor 
our neighbor.  Neither  should we   complain nor  retort, 
"Why do I have this  problem?" If you meet with  some 
problem, take it as your destiny and accept it. And then 
you have to fight with the problem.

  Second, you   may resist  and  resent  God  and turn    
from Him because  of your  problem, but true  believers 
should take it as a time to repent.  When something big 
or little comes up, we should not shift the responsibility 
to another,   but we   should take   advantage of  it  to 
repent.
  Psalm 34:17-18 says, "The righteous cry  out, and the 
Lord  hears  them;   he delivers   them  from  all  their 
troubles. The  Lord is  close  to the  brokenhearted and 
saves those who  are crushed  in spirit."  Therefore, we 
should repent, cry out,  be brokenhearted and  take time 
to check ourselves. Unless we repent, God will not  care 
for us, but if we confess our sins, He will accept us. So 
when we have  troubles, we have  to consider  it as an 
opportunity to draw near  to God. We have  to read the 
Word more and learn faith and obedience.
  Matthew 4:4 tells us, "Jesus  answered, 'It is written: 
'Man does not live  on bread alone, but  on every word 
that comes from the  mouth of God.'"  We should think 
about whether we are  living according to  the Word or 
to our physical  pleasure and desires  of the  world. We 
have to   make it  a  time to   seek the  Word  of God 
earnestly.
  Psalm 119:116-117   says, "Sustain   me according   to 
your promise, and  I will live;  do not let  my hopes be 
dashed. Uphold   me, and   I will   be delivered;  I  will 
always have   regard for  your  decrees." When   I face 
problems, I take  time to  read the Word  of God,  pray, 
and to seek Him. We  should not resent and resist  God 
or others, but   we should repent  and be close  to God 
and His Word.

  Third, when we have troubles, we don't need to be in 
a hurry,  relying on  our might,   but we have  to pray 
whole-heartedly to solve  our problems.  We should  not 
pray as usual, but  we should pray from  the bottom of 
our hearts.  Wholeheartedly, with  an earnest  heart, we 
should plead with our Lord to save us.
  Psalm 39:12 says, "Hear my prayer, O  Lord, listen to 
my cry for help; be not deaf to my weeping." When we 
cry out to the Lord  for help, weeping, He will hear us. 
The Bible says, "I  will  be with him  in trouble, I will 
deliver him and honor him." "He will  call upon me, and 
I will answer him. I  will deliver him and   honor him." 
It also tells us, "Call to me,  and I will answer you and 
tell you   great and   unsearchable things   you do   not 
know." "Whatever you ask  for in my name, I  will do." 
"Ask and it  will be  given to  you; seek  and you  will 
find;  knock  and  the  door  will  be  opened  to  you." 
Therefore, when we run into  trouble, we have to  think 
that it is  the time  that God will  perform miracles  for 
us.
  Our problems  are opportunities   for God. Unless  we 
have   problems,  we   will   have  no   opportunity   to 
experience  God's   miracle. Problems   bring   us good 
chances for God  to do miracles.  If there had  not been 
the problem with  the Red Sea,  there would have  been 
no need  for a miracle to divide the  sea. Without bitter 
water, they would not have tasted the sweet water  that 
God  had  made.  Unless  the  Israelites  had  wandered 
without water and food  in the wilderness for  40 years, 
they  would  not  have  experienced  God's  miracle  by 
which He provided for them  manna and the water  that 
gushed out of the rock. Your problems are opportunities 
for  God   to  perform   miracles.  Hence,  during   your 
problems, you must seek God. . . not man.
  In the Bible, when King Asa  had a problem with his 
feet, he  didn't  seek God   but a doctor,   and he  died. 
When King Asa was  sick on his feet,  it was the time 
for him to  seek the God  of healing.  If he had  sought 
God, he would  have been  healed. He  didn't seek  God 
but a doctor, so he died. Likewise, if you face problems, 
thinking that it  is the time  for you to  invite God into 
your problems, seek  Him with all  your mind,  will and 
heart. If you  cry out to  God at daybreak,  at night, or 
by fasting, He will reveal Himself in your problems and 
work for you. When we encounter  problems, we should 
cry to God and do our best.

  Fourth, when we  pray about our  problems, we  have 
to be willing to accept the results with humble hearts.
  Hebrews 5:7-10 says, "During the  days of Jesus' life 
on earth, He offered up prayers  and petitions with loud 
cries and  tears to  the one  who could  save him  from 
death,  and  he   was heard   because  of  his  reverent 
submission." Even Jesus prayed  to God with loud  cries 
and tears at Gethsemane and, due to that, He rose from 
the dead   and received   God's grace.  After  we  pray, 
God's answer may be  the same as  what we asked  or 
different. However,   no matter   what it   may be,   we 
should repent, come  near to God,  cry out  to Him and 
should accept the  result as  His will.  Since He  knows 
everything and shows us His decision, we should take it 
as His will.

  Fifth, we   should thank  God,  weeping, whether   He 
answers our requests the way we thought  He would or 
answers in His way.
  Psalm 50:14-15   says, "Sacrifice   thank offerings   to 
God, fulfill your vows to  the Most High, and call  upon 
me in the  day of  trouble; I will  deliver you,  and you 
will honor  me." That's   why Job never   resented God 
even during severe suffering. He lost all his possessions 
and  his   children,  and  his   wife  turned  from   him. 
Although he  was  sick and   scraped his body   with a 
piece of   broken pottery  among  the  ashes, he   didn't 
grumble against God.  Even in crying  and affliction, he 
didn't complain to God. We don't  qualify to resent God 
while we live on  earth. We were made  to glorify God. 
He is   the master  who  formed  us  and we   are His 
possessions. We must glorify and thank Him, no  matter 
what He   may do   to us  by  bringing  life  or  death, 
prosperity or ruins, and success or failure.
  He can do  as He  pleases with His  possessions that 
He made. Yet, God loved us and had compassion on us. 
To save  us, who   disobeyed and sinned   against Him, 
God sent His Son Jesus. So He died on the cross in our 
place and saved  us. Though  we should  have died  for 
our sins, we  can be  saved by  His grace through  His 
Son Jesus! How tremendous and wonderful  His love is! 
Since God demonstrated His love for  us through giving 
His only Son, we must give our  life to Him and follow 
Him.
  Job 1:21-22 says,  "--and said:  'Naked I  came from 
my mother's womb, and naked  I will depart. The  Lord 
gave and the  Lord has taken  away; may the  name of 
the Lord  be praised.'  In all  this, Job  did  not sin  by 
charging God with wrongdoing."
  He confessed in  Job 23:10,  "But he  knows the  way 
that I take; when  He has tested me,  I will come forth 
as gold." We  do not  know the  way that  we need  to 
take but the Lord knows. Since Job knew well that God 
was a good God,  he was convinced that  when he was 
tested, he would come forth as gold. All of us live with 
problems.  Yet,   if we   are   with God,   we   will be 
encouraged to overcome all our problems and have hope 
for tomorrow in every  trial, even unto  death. Shall we 
pray together?

-Prayer-
  Dear God, our Father, not only sinners but also godly 
people face  trials and  suffering. Father,  when we  run 
into a problem, please help us not to consider it strange, 
but to accept it as our destiny. Let us think of problems 
as a good opportunities to repent,  read Your Word, and 
draw near to You.  And help us in  our struggle to cry 
out to  You so   that You may  reveal  Yourself to  us. 
Please let us  accept your  answer with  humble hearts, 
no matter what your answer may be and live with You, 
giving thanks to You with  tears. Then we believe  that 
all our   problems will   be changed  to  blessings.  Our 
Father, when  we face  different problems,  help us  not 
think it strange, but consider them as good opportunities 
through which you will test us  and let us rejoice. Help 
us overcome those  problems and advance  forward. We 
pray in Jesus' name, Amen.
