Sunday, March 28th 1999
Title : The False Image and the True Reality
Scripture Reading : Heb 11:1-3

  A false image  is illusive and  vain. A  real image is 
true and  real.  Adam was tempted   by the devil  and 
followed   the   false   image,   which   led   him   into 
destruction. The word of God is real and true. God told 
him that he should surely die  when he ate the fruit of 
the tree of the  knowledge of good and  evil. The devil 
lied to Adam, saying  that he would be  like God when 
he would  eat the   fruit because their   eyes would be 
opened.  Deluded by  the desire to  be like God,  Adam 
ate  the  fruit and,  thus, was   destroyed. God's word 
may sometimes look empty  and vain but,  in reality, it 
is true and real. On the other hand, the world may look 
real and true  but it  is false  and vain.  When we  are 
possessed by illusions, we  will despair. However,  even 
when we are surrounded by many illusions, if we  stick 
to the true reality, we  will be successful, attaining  the 
truth.

  First, let  us examine  the false  image and  the true 
reality  that  Abraham   experienced. Abraham   was  a 
servant of   God and  he  received wonderful   promises 
from God.  God  gave him   the wonderful message   of 
great promises.

  Genesis 12:1-3 says,  "The Lord had  said to Abram, 
'Leave your   country, your  people  and  your father's 
household and go  to the land  I will  show you. I  will 
make you into  a great nation  and I  will bless you;  I 
will  make   your name   great,  and   you will   be   a  
blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and whoever 
curses you I will curse; and all peoples on earth will be 
blessed through you'."  It was a  wonderful blessing of 
God.   It   was true   and real  no  matter  what the 
circumstances. Abraham was  a blessed man.  Blessings 
were  supposed  to  follow  him  in  all  circumstances. 
However, Abraham forgot about this and was possessed 
by the circumstances,  the false image.  He went  down 
to Canaan but  there was  a great  famine in the  land. 
The sun was sizzling and the land was scorched. There 
was no water. Plants withered. Abraham was afraid  he 
might die there.  The devil came  and whispered, "You, 
your wife Sarah  and your  nephew Lot  will starve  to 
death. God's  promise  of blessings   was not  real but 
false. Go down  to Egypt  and you  will be  safe." God 
had told  him that  he  would be  a blessing   when he 
obeyed Him  and went  to Canaan.  However, when  he 
went to Canaan  there was  a great  famine instead  of 
blessings waiting for him. What  should he believe? "Is 
the word  of God   real and true?   Or is the  situation 
more realistic? Is the word of God imaginary and vain? 
Or is the devil's  word a lie?" Abraham  was confused. 
Since God's word  is real  and true, although  he could 
not hear, see or  touch anything, Abraham should  have 
stayed     in    Canaan     no    matter     what     the 
circumstances--the  scorched  land   and the   withered 
plants. We must stick to the word of God, for it is  the 
true reality. Everything else  is false. Things  may look 
true but they are false. However, deceived  by the false 
images, Abraham forsook God's real  word. He pursued 
the false images of the devil and decided to go down to 
Egypt, thinking   that there  would be   good things  in 
Egypt. It may have looked so but it was  not true. God 
didn't tell  him to   go to Egypt.    It was Abraham's 
thought, being deceived by the devil.

  It was  false and  vain. However,  Abraham followed 
the false reality and faced great problems there. He lost 
his wife and he was miserable. He realized that he had 
to pay   a big  price  for  his mistakes,   since he  had 
forsaken God's   word, following  his feelings   and the 
circumstances. He  fell  into distress  for  he had   been 
deluded. There  he learned  a great  lesson. He  learned 
that only the word of God is real and true, although he 
could not see, hear  or touch anything. He  also learned 
that everything else was false.  When Abraham became 
100 years  old, and   Sarah 90, God   promised that He 
would give a  child to  them. It sounded  impossible. A 
100 year old man and a 90 year old  woman could  not 
possibly have a  child both biologically  and empirically. 
However, since Abraham had  learned that the word of 
God was real  and true  and that  everything else  was 
false, including his feelings,  he trusted and  adhered to 
the word of God.

  Matthew 19:26  says, "With  man  this is  impossible, 
but with God  all things  are possible."  Luke 1:37  also 
says, "For nothing  is impossible with  God." Therefore, 
Abraham forfeited  the  false images  of  man's feeling 
and reason and  stayed with  the true  image of  God's 
word. People  looked at   them and thought  they  were 
crazy. They laughed at Abraham because he seemed  to 
be obsessed by the thought that he  was going to have 
a child from  his 90 year  old wife.  However, since he 
knew  that  the   word  of  God  was  real  and   that 
everything else was not, he decided to trust the word.

  Romans 4:18-22 says, "Against all  hope, Abraham in 
hope  believed  and  so  became   the father   of many 
nations, just as it had been said to him,  'So shall your 
offspring be.' Without weakening in  his faith, he faced 
the fact that his body  was as good as  dead--since he 
was  about  a  hundred  years  old--and  that  Sarah's 
womb was also  dead. Yet  he did  not waver  through 
unbelief  regarding   the  promise   of  God,   but  was 
strengthened in his faith and  gave glory to God, being 
fully persuaded that God had power to do what He had 
promised. This   is why  'it  was  credited  to him   as 
righteousness.'"  Against  all  hope,  Abraham  in  hope 
believed. He did so  because he  was  holding the true 
reality. The word of God was real and true. Everything 
else--his experience, thoughts  or feelings--was  wrong 
and false. Anything  that is opposite  to God's word  is 
wrong and  false  although it   may look  real. On   the 
other hand, the word  of God may  look false but  it is 
real because the word is  God Himself.

  Second, let us examine  the false image and  the true 
reality that   the disciples   experienced in   the sea  of 
Galilee.
  According to Mark 3:35-41, when evening came Jesus 
said to His disciples, "Let us go over to the other side." 
Leaving the crowd behind, they took Him along, just as 
He  was in the boat. There were also other boats with 
Him.  

  A furious squall came up, and  the waves broke over 
the boat, so that it was nearly  swamped. Jesus was in 
the stern,  sleeping on  a cushion.   The disciples woke 
Him and said to  Him, "Teacher, don't  you care if  we 
drown?"  

  The word of the  Lord alone is  real and true.  When 
He said that  they  should  go over to  the other  side, 
they were supposed to go over to  the other side. They 
certainly would,  even if   the sky collapsed,   the earth 
dipped down or  the storm  rose high  in rage  because 
the word of the  Lord was real and  true. However the 
disciples were  perplexed  by the   false image because 
they met a   furious squall in   the middle of  the sea. 
Dark clouds covered the sky and a violent wind almost 
swept them over.  Waves broke over  the boat and  the 
boat was almost swamped.  It was tossing  and rolling. 
The disciples  were  possessed by  the  false image   of 
shipwreck.

  Judging  from  what  they  saw,  they  thought  they 
would sink. From their  experiences as fishermen,  such 
a violent   storm would   make their  boat  sink.  From 
everything--from  their  feelings   and knowledge   and 
experiences--they concluded that  the boat  would sink. 
However, Jesus had  said that  they would  go over  to 
the other  side.  Which one  should  they believe?   The 
disciples saw  the water  in the  boat and  thought the 
boat was  sinking. They  were  perplexed by  the false 
thoughts that they  would drown.  However, Jesus was 
in the stern, sleeping on a  cushion. Why was Jesus at 
peace? Jesus knew what was  real and true. No matter 
how violent the storm  was, He knew  that they would 
go over to the other side. Since He  knew the truth, he 
was   not  shaken   at  all.   The   disciples  despaired, 
perplexed by the  false images.  They woke  Jesus and 
said to   him  to save   their lives.  He woke  up  and 
rebuked them for their unbelief. He got up, rebuked the 
wind and said to the waves, "Quiet! Be still!" Then the 
wind died down and it was completely calm. He said to 
his disciples, "Why are you so afraid? Do you still have 
no faith?"  They were  terrified and  asked each  other, 
"Who is this? Even the wind and the waves obey him!" 
To the   disciples who   had despaired   and cried  out, 
beings perplexed by the false images, Jesus said,  "Why 
can't you believe the  true reality? Although  you don't 
see, hear or touch anything, since I told you to go over 
to the other side,  you are supposed  to go over to  the 
other side. My word is true and real." His word is real 
and true.  Anything  that is   opposite to  His word   is 
wrong and false,  although it  may be  seen, heard and 
touched.  Jesus   rebuked His   disciples  because   they 
trusted what was wrong and  false. Let us think  about 
the prayer of Jonah inside the big fish. He said, "Those 
who cling to worthless idols forfeit the grace that could 
be theirs.   But I,  with  a song   of thanksgiving,  will 
sacrifice to you. What I have vowed  I will make good. 
Salvation comes from the  Lord." Jonah was  inside the 
fish while the fish was shaking, with  digesting fluid of 
the fish running over  him. He heard  the heartbeats of 
the fish in  its smelly  stomach without knowing  when 
he  would  be  digested.  He   prayed out   of distress, 
saying, "Those who cling to  worthless idols forfeit the 
grace that could be theirs."

  Jonah said  everything--the smelly  stomach and  the 
shaking of  the fish--was  a  false image.  He said,  "I 
don't cling to what is wrong and  false. Since I believe 
that God has heard my prayer and that  He will deliver 
me, I trust the word, not the false images. Jonah didn't 
cling to worthless idols.  Since He trusted  the word of 
God, he could come out of the fish. Therefore, we must 
know that  our feelings  can be  wrong and  false. Our 
reasons can be  wrong and  false. Our experiences  can 
be wrong and  false. Anything  that is  opposite to  the 
word of God is a  false image. The word of  God alone 
is true and real. Even  when the sky collapses  and the 
earth dips down, God's  word never changes.  Anything 
else is   false. We   should not   be deceived  by  false 
images.
Once we know the word and decide to  stand on it, we 
should cling  to the  word steadfastly   no matter what 
happens.  We   must think,   speak,   see and   feel  in 
accordance with   the word  of God.   Anything else  is 
false and wrong.  The word  of God is  the only   true 
and real image.

  Third, we must examine the false image and the true 
reality under the cross. We are living in the world that 
is filled with sins.  Sin ensnares, corrupts and  destroys 
man. Sin  tries  to drag   us to destruction.   When we 
come under the  cross, however, sin  is put  an end to, 
being revealed to be wrong and false. The truth is that 
Jesus brought   forgiveness and  righteousness  through 
His blood on the cross. Sin is a  false image now. It is 
a lie.  The  threat of   sin has  no power   over us.  In 
reality, Jesus  was  crucified on  the  cross 2000  years 
ago. He put an  end to sin through  His torn body and 
His shed blood.  The law of  the Holy Spirit  of life  in 
Jesus Christ  set  us free  from  the law  of  sin  and 
death.  In  reality,  we  are  freed  from  sins,  we  are 
forgiven and we are made righteous.

  Romans 3:23-24  says, "for  all have  sinned and  fall 
short of the  glory of  God, and are  justified freely  by 
his grace through  the redemption that  came by Christ 
Jesus." Therefore, we are forgiven  and made righteous. 
The threats of sin is a false image. We have no reason 
to be afraid of sins.  We are more than  forgiven, more 
than conquerors in Christ. We are made  righteous. The 
power of the world and the devil is null and false. The 
world comes to  us and tries  to alienate us  from God. 
The world is a place without God. After being  expelled 
from Eden, Adam and  Eve established their world  and 
God was not there.  God was not  in the hearts  of the 
people, in  their homes,  or  in their  work places.  The 
world is a place without God.

  The devil tempts, steals, kills and destroys  man. The 
power of the  devil and the  world may  look huge but 
they will  be revealed  to be  nothing under  the cross. 
That is   because Jesus  overcame the   world and  the 
devil on  the cross  and brought  heaven and  the Holy 
Spirit. He was nailed on  the hands and feet.  His body 
was torn He  shed His  blood. He,  thus, destroyed  the 
authority and power  of the devil.  The kingdom comes 
to us  in Christ.  The evidences  of the  coming of  the 
kingdom are: God is our Father; Jesus is our King; the 
Holy Spirit  is our  Counselor; the  word enters  in our 
hearts; the angels encamp around us; and we are living 
in the new world.  We don't live in  the world without 
God. God is in  our hearts, in our  homes, in our  work 
places. The kingdom  of God  has come  upon us.  The 
Holy Spirit  dwells in   us. Therefore, since  Jesus,  the 
true reality,   overcame the  world  and the   devil and, 
thus, gave us  heaven and the  Holy Spirit,  we are no 
longer deluded by the false image of the world and  the 
devil.

  1 John 3:8 says,  "He who does  what is sinful  is of 
the devil, because the  devil has been sinning  from the 
beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to 
destroy the devil's work." Jesus  destroyed the work of 
the devil on the cross.

  2 Corinthians 1:22 says,  "set His seal  of  ownership 
on us, and  put  His Spirit in our  hearts as a deposit, 
guaranteeing what is to come." We don't belong  to the 
world any more. We are filled with the Holy Spirit. We 
have Jesus in us and, thus, we have nothing to do with 
the world. We  have God in  us, in  our homes, in  our 
lives. Since we have  the Holy Spirit  wherever we go, 
the world cannot do anything  to us. The power of  the 
world and the devil  is nothing but a  false image. The 
true reality   is the   fullness of   the Holy   Spirit and 
heaven. Sorrows  and  diseases are  also  false images. 
The  world   is  full   of  worries,  troubles,   anxieties, 
frustrations and   sorrows. We   have diseases   in our 
hearts, in our bodies  and in our  lives. However, when 
we come under  the cross,  we find out  the truth  that 
Jesus has put an end to sorrows  and diseases and has 
brought us joy and healing. We should not  be deceived 
by the false image but stick to the true reality.

  Isaiah 53:4-5 says, "Surely he took up  our infirmities 
and  carried   our  sorrows,   yet we   considered   him 
stricken by God, smitten by  Him, and afflicted. But he 
was pierced for our transgressions, he was  crushed for 
our iniquities;  the  punishment that  brought  us peace 
was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed." This 
is true  reality. The  truth  is that  we are  freed  from 
sorrows and worries; we are healed from  diseases; and 
we  have  received  joy  and  good  health   from God. 
Sorrows and diseases are nothing but false images. We 
should not be  threatened or  alarmed by  false images, 
because they are deceitful and empty. Truth is  that we 
are  freed   from  sorrows,   frustrations  and  diseases 
through Christ. Although  we don't  see, hear or  touch 
anything, truth is truth.  The word of  God is true and 
real. The Lord tells us that we are freed from sorrows. 
He says,  "Although  you may  be  sick now,  you  are 
healed for  I was  stricken  for you."  We must  decide 
whether to follow the true reality or the false image.

  Poverty and  curses are  false images.  The world  is 
full of poverty and curses. We may have lost  jobs. We 
may live in  poverty. It  depresses us.  However, when 
we come under the cross and behold the truth,  we will 
realize that   poverty and  curses are   nothing but  the 
false images. The true reality is  that Jesus has put an 
end to poverty and curses and brought blessings.

  2 Corinthians 8:9  says, "For you  know the grace  of 
our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for 
your sakes He  became poor, so  that you  through His 
poverty might  become rich."  This is  the truth.  Jesus 
came and put an end to poverty and curses.

  Although curses  and poverty  may surround  us, we 
must proclaim, "You false images, I am not deceived or 
threatened by you. I am blessed by God through  Jesus. 
I have overcome poverty and curses in Christ. Although 
I don't  see or  hear anything,  although the  waves of 
curses try to sweep over me, I am not afraid." We can 
boldly say so because Jesus is with us and because He 
says, "I took all  your curses and  poverty." We should 
not wander   between the  false  images  and the   true 
reality. We must know what is  true and what is false. 
We should point to the false image and say, "You false 
thing, I command you  in the name  of Nazareth Jesus. 
Depart from me."

  Death and   hell are  also false   images. People  say, 
"Doesn't everyone die? My grandfather died and so did 
my grandmother.  Some of   us have lost   our parents, 
brothers  or  sisters."  Without  Christ,   death is   real. 
However, when we look under the cross, death and hell 
are nothing   but false   images. Paul   said, "O   death, 
where is your sting? O, death,  where is your victory?" 
What did Jesus say?  He said, "I  am the  resurrection 
and life. He  who believes in  me shall live  even if he 
dies. He who believes in me will not die."

  Jesus also said, "Do  not let your hearts  be troubled. 
Trust in God; trust  also in me.  In my Father's house 
are many rooms; if  it were not  so, I would have  told 
you. I am going there to  prepare a place for you.  And 
if I go and  prepare a place  for you, I will  come back 
and take  you  to be  with me  that you  also may be 
where I am." Paul  the Apostle said, "We  know that if 
the earthly  tent we  live in   is destroyed, we  have a 
building from God, an eternal house in heaven, not built 
by human  hands."  Death and   hell may look   real to 
nonbelievers. However, they will be revealed to be false 
when we come under the cross. The true reality is that 
Jesus was resurrected and has given us eternal life and 
heaven, overcoming death and hell.

  Therefore, we must  believe the  true image  of God. 
Although  we   don't  see,   hear  or   touch  anything, 
although things may look real from our experiences and 
knowledge, we must say that only God is true. Judging 
from  the   word  of   God,  we   may  have   different 
perspectives. What seems  to be true  may not be  true 
and what seems to be false may be true. Therefore, we 
must stand firmly on  the word, meditate on  the word, 
believe the word, say  and act based on  the word, and 
follow the word. Then we will  experience the ultimate 
true reality.

  So many  people are  deceived  and enslaved  by the 
false images  based on  their experiences,   feelings and 
knowledge. No matter how it may look, we must  know 
that God's  word is  the  only truth.  Anything that  is 
opposite to His word is false. He who follows the false 
image forfeits God's  grace. He  who follows  the truth 
may have to  go through  depressing situations  but, in 
the end, he  will witness  the power and  glory of  God 
that changes darkness into light;  death into life; failure 
into success; and frustration into victory.

We must hold on  to the true  reality. Even if  the sky 
collapses and  the earth  dips down,  the word  of  God 
never changes. We must cling to it.  What did I say in 
Dubai? I said, "Stand on the true reality. God's word is 
the true reality. Jesus is the true  reality. Anything else 
is false. He who follows the false  images will despair." 
I proclaimed that Jesus is the truth. Jesus Christ is the 
true reality to us. The  true reality is: we  are forgiven 
in Him; we  have received  heaven and  the Spirit;  we 
have  received   joy and   healing;  we   have  received 
blessings and grace; and we have received resurrection, 
eternal life  and  heaven. Hold  on  to the  true  reality. 
Stand firm on the truth. Anything else is nothing but a 
false image.
