Sunday, July 25th 1999
Title : I will fill your Mouth
Scriptures Reading : Ps 81:10

  Today I  will deliver  the message  "I Will  Fill Your 
Mouth." The  book  of Genesis   tells us  that our   God 
created this world and filled it. God filled the dark chaos 
of this world with the  light and filled the  skies around 
the earth with  blue sky.  He created  land and  filled it 
with various kinds of trees and vegetation. He filled the 
sky with the sun, the  moon and the countless numbers 
of stars. The Milky Way which we see in the night sky 
is composed of  billions of stars.  Aren't the stars  truly 
countless? He filled the seas with fish, and He filled the 
land with various  insects and animals.  As of July  this 
year, the earth has about 6 billion people. God filled this 
world with a tremendous number  of people. It is God's 
desire and wish  to fill  this world  with wonderful  and 
beautiful things.
  In today's reading, God led the Israelites out of Egypt 
toward Canaan and told  them, "Open wide  your mouth 
and I will fill it." Even today, God does  not desire your 
lives to  be  empty baskets.   God desires  to fill   those 
baskets. However,  for God   to fill them,   we must be 
prepared to  receive God's  filling.  God has  told us  to 
keep our mouths  open wide.  Then, how  can we  keep 
our mouths open wide?

  First, we   must remove   the bars   which keep   our 
mouths tightly locked. We must first remove the bars of 
sin. No matter how wide we try to open  our mouths, it 
is useless if we  have the bars of  sin bolted. We  must 
realize that our spiritual mouths have bars of sin across 
them.
  It is written in  Isaiah 59:1-3, "Surely the  arm of the 
Lord is not  too short to  save, nor  his ear too  dull to 
hear. But your iniquities  have separated you from  your 
God; your sins have  hidden his face from  you, so that 
he will  not  hear. For  your  hands are    stained with 
blood, your  fingers with  guilt. Your  lips  have spoken 
lies, and your tongue   mutters wicked things." Without 
first dealing with  our sins and  removing the  bars, we 
cannot open our mouths.  How can we know  what sins 
have filled and closed our mouth? When  we take God's 
law and use  it to shine  on ourselves, we  can see our 
sins. The law which  serves as the foundation  is God's 
Ten Commandments. When we reflect on ourselves with 
the Ten Commandments, we  can see what  bars of sin 
lock our mouths and we can remove them.
  We must first  remove the sin-bar  of idolatry. If  we 
worship other gods in  our lives, God can  never fill us. 
We must remove that  sin-bar. You may wonder...  how 
can Christians serve another god?
  In Japan, many Christians  worship idols even  though 
they worship God. Having such multiplicity is not God's 
way. The Israelites  also served  God and  at the  same 
time, served  Baal and  Asherah. God  does not  tolerate 
such  sin.   We must   pull   the sin-bar   out  through 
repentance and with the blood of Jesus Christ. You may 
not physically bow down to some stone images made of 
gold, silver or stone, but greed can also become an idol. 
When a person  seeks, because of  greed, that which  is 
beyond his ability of himself to ever  acquire, that greed 
can become an  idol of worship.  We must  pull out the 
sin-bar of the  idolatry of  greed in our  hearts through 
repentance and the blood of Jesus Christ.
  We must also pull out the bars of judging God. Many 
people commit wrong-doing, then turn  the responsibility 
to God, criticizing God  and blaming God  for their own 
sins. They must  pull out such a sin-bar. Why do  they 
commit the wrong, then blame God?
  We must also pull out the sin-bar  of not keeping the 
Sabbath. God told   us to work  for six  days and then 
serve Him on the  seventh. The sin-bar  of not keeping 
the Sabbath must also be pulled out.
  We must  also pull  out the   sin-bar of disrespecting 
our parents. God told  us to respect  our parents, but  if 
we disrespect our  parents and  ill-treat them, we  must 
repent. We must  pull that  sin-bar out.  We must  also 
pull out the sin-bar  of hatred. When  we harbor hatred 
for someone, that may turn into a desire for murder.
  The sin of  hating another is  like the sin  of murder. 
We must pull that sin-bar out.  Through repentance, we 
must also pull out the sin-bar of lewdness, adultery and 
vileness, through repentance.
  We must  pull  out the  sin-bar  of stealing.  Stealing 
from God, stealing  from our government,  stealing from 
our companies,  stealing  from our   neighbors...we must 
pull out all these sin-bars  of stealing. Although no  one 
may know, God does indeed know.
  We must pull out that sin-bar.  We must pull out the 
sin-bar of bearing false  witness. This is a  terrible sin. 
Setting traps for our  neighbors to watch  them stumble 
and   bearing  false   witness   against  them   to   ruin 
them...these are   terrible sins  favored by   Satan. Such 
sins cleanly wipe away all of  God's grace bestowed on 
us.
  We  must   pull out   the   sin-bar of   coveting  our 
neighbors' possessions. When good things happen to our 
neighbors, we must not try  to drive our neighbors  into 
a pit to  ruin them.  We must  pull it  out this  sin-bar. 
This is one  of the worst  characteristics of the  Korean 
people. When our relatives  buy a big  farm, we get  an 
upset  stomach.  Pastor  Kim  Sam-hwan  goes  a  step 
further and says, "We  have a bad case  of diarrhea." It 
is  just the worst  thing about Koreans;  we can't bear 
to see someone become  better than us.  They don't try 
to improve   and succeed   themselves, but  rather  they 
connive in every way to bring the others down.
  We must pull out such horrid sin-bars.
  It is   written in   Psalm 107:15-18,   "Let them   give 
thanks  to  the  Lord  for  his  unfailing  love  and  his 
wonderful deeds for men,  for he breaks  down gates of 
bronze  and  cuts  through  bars  of  iron..."  When  we 
repent, God breaks down  the gates of  bronze and bars 
of iron. God  removes the  bars which  keep our  mouth 
shut, so that He cleanses us of our  sins which keep us 
from can't calling out to God. "Repent  for the Kingdom 
of God is near,"  can only come  about once we  repent. 
Therefore, we must repent in front  of God and pull out 
all such sin-bars.

  Second, we must open  wide our mouth of  hope. God 
said, "Open wide your  mouth and I  will fill it."  If you 
do not have any concrete hope, nothing can come about. 
Only when we  have hope, can  we strive for  what we 
hope for. A person without hope is useless. We  hope to 
eat, so we eat; we hope to study, so we study; we hope 
to work, so  we go  out looking for  work; we  hope to 
make a lot of money, so we go out  and try to succeed. 
We hope to travel, so we go all around the world. Only 
when we have some concrete hope in our hearts, are we 
moved to action.  Jesus Christ  asks us,  "What do  you 
wish for me to do for you?" When we have nothing we 
are hoping for, God  will not fill us.  God always places 
hope in   our hearts   before He   uses us.   When God 
desires to use us  in a certain way,  He first stirs hope 
in our hearts for to do His will.
  It is written  in Philippians 2:13,  "For it  is God who 
works in you to  will and to act  according to his  good 
purpose." God stirs  great hope in  our hearts  according 
to His will. Then, through  that hope, God causes us  to 
take action. As such, we must open wide our mouths of 
hope.   Only  when   we  have   some  great   hope  to 
experience a miracle of  God, can such  happen. Without 
it, when  we  just drift  along  this way   and that, we 
cannot receive anything from God.

  Third, we  must  open wide   our mouths of   dreams. 
Dreams are  the visualization   of our hopes.  When  we 
dream, we  are visualizing  our  hopes as  if our   hopes 
have already  been fulfilled.   Hope is a  vague  longing, 
while a dream  is a  detailed visualization  with specific 
goals for the future. Our God is a God of dreams.
  It is written  in Romans  4:17,  "As  it is  written: 'I 
have made you  a father  of many  nations.' He  is our 
father in the sight  of God, in  whom he believed -  the 
God who gives life to the dead and calls things that are 
not as though they were." Calling things that are not as 
though they   are is   what dreaming   does. When   we 
visualize things that  are not as  though they  were, we 
can work with  God. Those  who walk  with God  must 
not look  only at  visual reality.  We  must look  to the 
future and visualize as  if our hopes have  already come 
about. Abraham   was a  man  of dreams.   At age  75, 
Abraham accepted  the  promise of  God  and began   to 
dream.
  It is written in Genesis 12:1-2, "The Lord had said to 
Abram,  'Leave  your  country,  your  people  and  your 
father's household and go to the land I will show you. I 
will make you into a great  nation and I will bless you; 
I  will  make  your  name  great,  and  you  will  be  a 
blessing.'" God foretold Abram's future. Abram accepted 
this promise of God and  began to dream of that  in his 
heart day about that day.  In his dream, he already  had 
possessed Canaan in his dream.
  It is   written in  Genesis  13:14, "The   Lord said  to 
Abram..., 'Lift up  your eyes  from where  you are  and 
look north and south, east  and west.'" God told him  to 
possess Canaan.  God promised   to give Abram   all he 
could take   in with  his eyes.   When we  do not   look 
toward the future and dream of  greatness, God will not 
work for  us. When  we have  hope for  something,  we 
must dream of having it.
  In the   Bible, God  gave Abraham   a son.  However, 
when he was 85 years old, God called him  out and told 
him to  count the  stars in  the sky.  As Abraham  was 
counting, God told him that his descendants will number 
like the  stars in  the sky.  When Abraham  looked and 
counted the stars,  he could see  his descendants  in his 
mind. There are  an incredible numbers  of stars  in the 
sky. The number  of stars we  can see with  our naked 
eye is about 6,000. However, the number of stars in just 
the   Milky  Way   is  astronomical.   In  the   universe, 
however, there are  bigger galaxies  than ours,  like our 
neighbor Andromeda.  God told  Abraham to   look upon 
the stars and dream of having so many descendants.
  Today, the   president of   Korea promotes  the  "new 
educated"  man.  I  believe  that  man  is  a  man  who 
dreams. Those who  succeed in  venture businesses  are 
not necessarily the Ph.D.s  but those who  have dreams. 
The Wright  brothers who  first built  a flying  machine 
were bicycle   shop owners.  They  were bicycle   repair 
men. At the  time, physicists  were claiming  that other 
than birds, nothing  weighing more than  air could  fly. 
The Wright brothers built a flying machine heavier than 
air. They were not professors of physics. They were not 
engineers. They repaired bicycles. However, the brothers 
shared a dream.  They dreamed  of man  flying through 
the air.  The result  of their   dream was  the  airplane 
which led  to  such huge   machines as the   747 which 
carries  500-  600  people  across  the  Pacific  and  the 
Atlantic. Such  are the  dreams  of the  "new educated" 
men. God finds joy  in those who have  dreams and He 
helps them fulfill their dreams.
  It is written in  Ephesians 3:20, "Now  to him who is 
able to  do  immeasurably more   than all  we   ask or 
imagine, according to his  power that is at  work within 
us." When we have dreams running through our  minds, 
God empowers us to  fulfill those dreams.

  Fourth, we must  open wide our  mouth of faith.  The 
Faith is of  course in  the Word  of God.  Faith doesn't 
mean believing in just anything.
  It is  written  in Romans   10:17, "Consequently,  faith 
comes from hearing  the message,  and the  message is 
heard through the  word of  Christ." Many  of you  say, 
"Isn't it enough just  to reading the Bible  from Genesis 
to Revelation at home by  myself?" Of course. But also, 
great faith  comes from  hearing. Even  the servants  of 
God who read  the Bible  and deliver sermons  listen to 
the sermons of  others. Faith comes  when we listen  to 
sermons. Even  I  turn on   the cable  TV to   hear the 
sermons of other  great pastors. Why?  Because when I 
hear God's message  from them, my  faith grows. Faith 
comes to  us when   we hear God's   message. That is 
why I urge you to come to church. Opening your mouth 
of faith is  having a  firm conviction that  although you 
cannot see with  your eyes  or hear  with your ears  or 
hold with your hands, God can make all things possible.
  It is  written in  Romans  4:18-22, "Against  all hope, 
Abraham in hope believed  and so became the  father of 
many nations, just as it had been said to him, 'So shall 
your offspring be.'  Without weakening  in his faith,  he 
faced the fact  that his  body was  as good  as dead  - 
since he  was about  a  hundred years  old -   and that 
Sarah's womb  was also  dead. Yet   he did not  waver 
through unbelief  regarding the promise of God, but was 
strengthened in his faith  and gave glory  to God, being 
fully persuaded that God  had power to do what he had 
promised. This   is why   'it was   credited to   him as   
righteousness.'" Faith   is having   a conviction   of the 
heart. No matter  how much the  storm blows from  the 
east or west, or the  earth rattles and shakes,  we must 
have a firm conviction of having God by our side.
  The famous Englishman George Muller, known as the 
father of  orphans, has   said that  God  answered  him 
50,000 times. During the  Industrial Revolution, when  he 
saw so   many of   the poor  and  the  orphan  children 
walking the streets, he decided  to become the caretaker 
of the orphans as he  read the Psalm 68:5, "A  father to 
the fatherless, a defender of widows, is God  in his holy 
dwelling." God  is the  father of  orphans. Wouldn't  He 
take care of them? Doesn't God always  prepare for His 
children? Without begging for  help from others, George 
Muller took the  Bible and  began to pray  to God,  "Oh 
Father of  orphans,  give them  food  to eat."  With  his 
prayers, he fed 2,000 orphans. He clothed them, educated 
them  and  even  sent  some  off  in  marriages   to be 
married. He was  a true man  of faith.  He had a  great 
faith in the Psalm 65:5, and  on that promise, he prayed 
for the orphans, resulting in his great  achievement.
  Faith   always  brings   optimistic   expectations   and 
actions. When  you have  faith, that   faith becomes the 
basis of your dreams becoming reality, and you can live 
this world with optimism. As such, we  must open wide 
our mouths of faith and wait for God to fill  them in.

  Fifth, we must open wide our mouths of prayer. After 
opening our mouths of hope, our mouths of dreams, and 
our mouths of faith, we must  then pray. We must take 
all these things and open wide our mouths of prayer.
  It is written in Jeremiah  33:3, "Call to me  and I will 
answer you and tell  you great and unsearchable  things 
you do  not  know."  God has  knowledge of  things of 
which  we  do  not  know.  Things   which we   cannot 
understand or realize God reveals  to us when we  pray. 
That is why Christ told us to pray at all times.
  It is   written in   Luke 18:1,   "Then Jesus   told his 
disciples  a  parable  to  show  them  that  they  should 
always pray and not give up." Christ told us not to give 
up because we will face  many difficulties. Although we 
cannot see with our eyes or hear with our ears or touch 
with our hands  and face much  opposition as  we pray, 
we must not give up but continue to pray. Because Our 
prayers move God's hand. God changes our destiny and 
our environment. If God is by our side, who can oppose 
us? He Who gave us His Son, what would He not give 
us? Our prayers move His hand.  When God moves His 
hand for  us, everything  comes together  for our  good. 
Even the enemies who desire to destroy  us can become 
a source of God's glory.
  Today many Christians have not claimed the power of 
prayer. Although they hear and  
they know, they are too lazy to pray because  it is hard 
work. Why is  it hard?  Because Satan  is there.  Satan 
does  all   he can   to   prevent us   from   praying by 
suppressing our spirits  and causing  despair. When  we 
pray, Satan faces a  great hardship. When we  pray, his 
power is eaten away and he  is driven out of us as  we 
are empowered  by the  Holy Spirit.  Satan does  all he 
can to stop  us from praying  to God. Many  people are 
fooled by   Satan and  have come   under his  influence. 
They do not pray  or pray very  little. However, I  urge 
you to hold on  to your rights to  pray, and continue to 
open wide  your mouth  of  prayer. George  Muller was 
answered 50,000 times by God. Shouldn't we expect God 
to answer us at least 500 times? We must pray.

  Sixth, we must  open wide our  mouths of praise.  As 
we live in this  world, we must give  ample thanks and 
praise to  God. God  created man  so that  He could  be 
praised. Why did God create us? He didn't  create us to 
have  a  headache.   God desired   to  be  glorified  and    
praised by His creatures.  As such, we  must praise the 
Lord.
  It is written in Psalm 22:3, "Yet you are enthroned as 
the Holy   One; you  are  the  praise of    Israel." God 
desires to be the  praise of Israel,  of His people.  When 
we praise God  with our  voices, this is  where God  is. 
Our praises  are sweet  to God's  ear. When  we praise 
God with all  our hearts, we  feel revived. As  you face 
hardships and   difficulties, when   you praise  God,  He 
comes to drive away Satan. Many Christians do not use 
this weapon   of praise.  Praising God   is detestable  to 
Satan and glorious to God. Praise  is the throne of God. 
When we praise  God, He sits  on His throne  of praise 
and loves us all the more.
  It is written in Psalm 100:1-2,   "Shout for joy to the 
Lord, all the earth. Serve the  Lord with gladness; come 
before him with joyful  songs." God told us  to come to 
Him in  holiness,  singing joyful   songs. When we   are 
always depressed  or have   a grudge against   God, we 
cannot serve   God. He   simply does  not  like  such a 
person. Grumbling, complaining,  and resenting  God are 
like smoke. Who would like  to wallow in a  room filled 
with smoke? God  desires all people  everywhere to call 
out His name in  joy and for  all His creation  to praise 
Him. He is especially pleased when His children come to 
him with songs of joy and in happiness.
  It is written in  Psalm 100:4-5, "Enter  his gates with 
thanksgiving and his courts with  praise; give thanks to 
him and praise his name. For the  Lord is good and his 
love endures forever;  his faithfulness continues  through 
all   generations."  We   must  enter   His   gates  with 
thanksgiving. Actually,  we  enter His   gates when  we 
give thanksgiving. As  we think of  all the  good things 
God has given  us and  we are thankful,  we enter  into 
His gates.  Isn't what  God has  given us  through  His 
Son Jesus Christ  the greatest thing  in the world!  God 
so loved this  world that  He gave  His only  Son Who 
died on the cross  and shed His  blood, so that  through 
His death, he redeemed  us from our sins  and made us 
righteous in  God. How  can we  not give  thanks? Our 
thanksgiving takes us through His gates  and our praise 
takes us into  His courts. Once  again, our  praise takes 
us into  His courts.  God's  courts must  be filled   with 
praise. It is important that the choir sing beautifully. We 
must also sing hymns of praise, hymns. Even when you 
are not at church, hum. Don't grumble  or complain, but 
hum a hymn. Thanksgiving takes us  through His gates 
and praise takes us into His courts.  The way for us to 
enter into God's courts and come face to face with Him 
is through praise. When an assembly  of Christians sing 
many songs of praise to  God, a great revival  of spirits 
takes  place  and  when  a  great  revival   takes place, 
everyone has  a  great desire  to  sing. We   must open 
wide our mouth of praise.
  Among the twelve  scouts who  had gone to  spy out 
Canaan, those   who had   followed ten   of them   were 
abandoned by God for  a good reason. Why  didn't they 
have the   hope to   enter Canaan?  Land  of  milk and 
honey, they lacked  a strong  desire for  it. They didn't 
dream of  having it.   They simply did   not have hope. 
They were devoid  of dreams.  They had  no faith they 
could conquer Canaan. They  only saw the greatness  of 
their enemies. The  enemies were  like giants  and they 
were like locusts.  These words  are those  which come 
from people without faith. They didn't pray to God with 
a strong desire, hope and a dream to enter into Canaan, 
and of course they didn't thank God nor  praise God for 
having given them Canaan. They became great cowards 
and  failures;  they  wanted   to return   to  Egypt  and 
become slaves. Those Israelites  who followed these  ten 
faithless scouts were all abandoned by  God and died in 
the desert. But how were Joshua and Caleb? Among the 
12 scouts,  the two   of them had  a  burning desire  to 
enter into   Canaan. They  had  a  wonderful  dream of 
owning Canaan. They already  believed that the  land of 
milk and  honey belonged  to them.  The enemies   were 
nothing to worry about and  that they had no protector. 
They said,  "Let's go."  They had  a dream.   They had 
faith they  could conquer  Canaan. They  had faith  that  
with  God,  nothing  was  impossible  and  they  had  a 
burning  hope  to  enter  into  Canaan,  and  they  gave 
thanks to God and praised Him for giving them Canaan. 
As such, Joshua and Caleb were kept safe during the 40 
years in the  desert and  while all  the others  died, the 
two men entered into  Canaan where the milk and   the 
honey flowed.
  God tells us to open wide our mouths and He will fill 
it. It is God  Who fills your  mouth. But we must  open 
our mouths. When  our mouths  are closed,  God cannot 
fill it. We  must first  pull out the  bars of  sin, have a 
burning hope, dream a wonderful dream, not be afraid of 
our adverse  circumstances.  But with   a burning faith, 
open our mouths of prayer and give  thanks to God and 
praise His name so  that He can  fill us. He fills  us so 
that our spirits are  made well, fills  us so that  we are 
healthy in   all things,   and He   fills our   spirits with 
victory. Even today, God is among us and desires to fill 
us with good  things. "Open your  mouth and I  will fill 
it."  Oh  Father   God, when   You  fill  us   with your 
strength, nothing  can  stop us.   What more  is needed 
when You  are the  provider? Oh  Father God,  it is  us 
who we keep our  mouth closed when You  want to fill 
it. Oh God of  love, help us  to remove the  bars of sin 
from our   mouth today.   With such  bars  locking  our 
mouth, what can we possibly receive? Help us to repent. 
Help us to  come to  you with  a burning hope  and be 
able to have dreams in our  hearts. Although we cannot 
see nor  hear, let  us  all have  faith strong   enough to 
remain steadfast and positive  so that we  can open our 
mouths of prayer, of  thanks, and of  praise. Help us  to 
always give thanks and praise to You.

-Prayer-

  Oh Father God, help  us all be  filled by You  so that 
our spirits are  made well  as our lives  are made  well. 
Help us  become the  salt and  the light  of this  world. 
Help us become people who can  lend to others, not the 
ones who need  to borrow.  Help us  to be  the blessed 
ones who will share with others. I  pray in the name of 
Jesus Christ, Amen.

