Sunday, November 21st, 1999
Scripture Reading: Corinthians 9:6-15
The Blessings of God and Prosperity

On  Thanksgiving  Day,  we   think about   the blessings   of  God  and 
prosperity. In our country this year, we've had abundant harvest  in spite 
of a severe flood and storms. We  have reaped 5,263,000 tons of rice and 
North Korea  1,523,000 tons.  They are  not comparable.  Considering the 
poor crops and famine of North Korea, we should give thanks to God for 
His blessings and  grace upon  our country. We  know well  that all our 
plans and efforts without God's sunshine and rain, will be of no use. We 
keep on planting and reaping  in our whole lifetime. If  we sow seeds on 
good soil and take good care of them, we will have plenty to harvest.
  Genesis 8:22 says, "As long as the earth endures, sedative and harvest, 
cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night will never cease."
  We also  read in  2  Corinthians 9:6,  "Remember this:  Whoever  sows 
sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also 
reap generously." This is the universal principle that works  on the entire 
human life.

  First, when we sow  seed on good soil,  God will bless us.  Jesus tells 
us the parable of sowing  the seed in Matthew  13: the seed sown  along 
the path, the seed on rocky  places, the seed among the  thorns, the seed 
on good soil. He says  that the seed sown  along the path was eaten  by 
birds.
  Matthew 13:19   says, "When   anyone hears  the  message  about  the 
kingdom and does  not understand  it, the  evil one  comes and  snatches 
away what  was sown  in his  heart. This  is the  seed sown  along the 
path." Those whose  hearts are  hardened by  secular sins  and who  are 
indifferent to God's grace  and heaven can't  be blessed by  him, for the 
devil comes and takes away their blessings. No matter how hard they try 
with such attitudes, they won't  be able to receive  God's blessings. The 
seed that fell  on rocky places  may sprout but  when the sun  shines, it 
will wither quickly.
  Matthew 13:20-21 says,  "The one who  received the seed  that fell on 
rocky places is the man who hears the word and at once receives it with 
joy. But since he has  no root, he lasts only  a short time. When trouble 
or persecution comes because  of the word, he  quickly falls away." This 
symbolizes those who don't repent deeply. Although they accept Jesus as 
their Savior, they  don't repent seriously  but formally. That's  why they 
don't have  great faith  but little  faith. They  don't put  their faith   into 
practice, but  they  are easily   tempted. They  don't attend   the Sunday 
services, offer their tithes, pray, nor  read the word. Likewise, they don't 
keep their faith.  If they face  any trial,  they will turn  away from  their 
faith quickly. The seed  that fell among  the thorns, sprouts  but will die 
because of the thorns.
  Matthew 13:22 reads, "The one who  received the seed that fell  among 
the thorns is the  man who hears the  word, but the worries  of this life 
and the  deceitfulness of  wealth  choke it,  making it  unfruitful."  These 
people love themselves more than God. They just come to church to take 
advantage of God but not to believe, serve nor to enjoy him. They try to 
exploit God for their lives. Since they are full  of greed and avarice, they 
commit idolatry. They bow toward  greed and avarice and  make God an 
offering for them. They don't have attitudes to be blessed by God.
  The heart of  good soil is  mentioned in  Matthew 13:23, "But  the one 
who received the seed  that fell on good  soil is the man  who hears the 
word and understands it.  He produces a  crop, yielding a  hundred, sixty 
or thirty times what was sown." These people break secularity 
and sins in their hearts and come to  the Lord. They change their hearts 
and come to the Lord,  yearning for God's grace.  They repent truly and 
make their hearts deep. They remove disobedience, unbelief, and seriously 
accept the word and the grace of the Holy Spirit.
  John 7:38 says,  "Whoever believes  in me,  as the  Scripture has  said, 
streams of living water  will flow from  within him." It says  those filled 
with the Holy Spirit. We read in Psalms 1:1-3,  "Blessed is the man who 
does not  walk in  the counsel  of the   wicked or stand  in the  way of 
sinners or sit in the seat of mockers. But his delight is in the law of the 
Lord, and  on his  law he  meditates  day and  night. He  is like  a  tree 
planted by streams of water, which  yields its fruit in season  and whose 
leaf does not wither. Whatever he does prospers." These people love God 
so much and seek first his kingdom and his righteousness.
  Matthew   6:33   writes,   "But  seek   first   his   kingdom   and   his 
righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well."
  Romans 1:17 also writes, "The righteous will live by faith." In this sort 
of hearts, we have  to sow the  seed, the dream  of our lives.  While we 
live in this world, we have many types of dreams. We should sow seeds 
of those dreams  in good soil.  When our hearts  are like good  soil, God 
will bless us.
  Deuteronomy 28:2-6  states, "All  these blessings  will come  upon you 
and accompany you if you obey the Lord  your God: You will be blessed 
in the city and blessed  in the country. The  fruit of your womb  will be 
blessed, and the crops of your land and the young of your livestock--the 
calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks. Your basket and your 
kneading trough will be blessed. You  will be blessed when you  come in 
and blessed when you go out."
  Galatians 6:7 says, "Do not be deceived: God cannot be mocked. A man 
reaps what he  sows." Therefore,  when we  sow the seed  in good  soil, 
God will work. If our hearts are  like paths, rocky places, and thorns,  no 
matter how eagerly we may sow the seed of dreams, God  won't be able 
to bless us.  If we sow  the seed in  that waste land,  how can we  reap 
good fruit? Even  though people  sow the  seed in the  barren land  of a 
communistic country like North  Korea, God will  not bless them.  That's 
why the communistic  nations are ruined.  The communists including  the 
Soviet Union as well as its satellite countries were against and indifferent 
to God. Their hearts were like  paths, rocky  places and thorns.  So they 
didn't gain any fruit though  they sowed the seed.  Our hearts should be 
like good soil to sow the seed.

  Second, we have to take care of  the seed. After we sow the seed,  we 
should water it. If  not, the seed  will not grow,  will it? Only  when we 
experience the   grace and   fullness of   the Holy   Spirit, must   we be 
overflowing with God's grace in our lives.
  It is said in 1  Corinthians 3:6, "I planted the  seed, Apollos watered it, 
but God made it grow." After sowing the seed, we have to water it, then 
God will make it grow.  Hence, after we plant the  seed in our hearts  of 
good soil, we should  water it. We should  be filled with the  Holy Spirit 
by praying earnestly, always  acknowledge, welcome, accept  him, and be 
guided by him. Moreover,  the seed needs  sunshine. In other  words, we 
should have  positive  attitudes through  thanks  and praises.   If we are 
negative, always resenting, complaining and despairing,  it's like we have 
a cloudy sky.  Since there is  no sunshine, no  seed will  grow in us.  In 
order for God to bless us, our hearts should be filled with thanks, praises 
and  thoughts   positive,  active,  creative   and  productive.  Resentment, 
complaints and sighs  will pile up  trash. If we  heap up  garbage in our 
hearts, the seed  can't grow.  Accordingly, we should  always keep  it in 
mind that we must throw away all negative attitudes such as resentment, 
complaints, sighs, slander and attacks. We have to think  of and speak of 
thanks and   praises and  be  filled with   expectation and  hope  that  is 
positive, active,  bright and  clear. If  we don't  care for   what we have 
planted, without  watering and  sunshine, it  will die.  After planting,  we 
ought to fertilize. That means,  we should study and  learn the word. By 
doing that, we can grow in our faith and make it work actively. 
  Matthew 4:4 says,  "Man does  not live on  bread alone,  but on every 
word that comes from the mouth of God."
  Romans 10:17 also  says, "Consequently, faith  comes from hearing  the 
message, and the message  is heard through  the word of  Christ." If we 
hear and meditate on the word and fill our  hearts with that, it'll become 
fertilizer for our faith and  nutrition in our lives.  It'll supply nutrition so 
that what we  planted may grow.  Furthermore, we should  keep harmful 
insects from working. We have to  expel the devil and demons. For  they 
don't stop coming to us and making us resent, complain,  dispute, despair 
and shrink back. Therefore, we should stand firm in the faith and always 
drive out the devil from our lives.
  James 4:7 reads, "Submit yourselves, then, to God. Resist the devil, and 
he will flee from you." In 1 Peter  5:8-9 we read, "Be self-controlled and 
alert. Your enemy the devil prowls around like  a roaring lion looking for 
someone to devour. Resist  him, standing firm  in the faith." If  we don't 
have peace but are uneasy and nervous at all  times, we can't pray, read 
the word, nor evangelize  others. We have to  be overflowing with peace 
of God in our hearts. If we're filled with sorrow  and depression, we will 
lose joy and energy in our  lives. We should remove despondency  in our 
hearts. If we have envy, resentment, and jealousy, criticizing, blaming and 
attacking others, we will lose love, so our faith won't work nor will God 
bless us. We should  keep on expelling in  Jesus' name our enemies,  the 
devil and demons, who bring us such wickedness. As we have  to take a 
shower and a bath because of  dust and dirt while living  in this  world, 
so demons and the devil  will always break into our  lives.  It is written 
that the  thief  comes only  to  steal, kill  and  destroy. Though  we  are 
unaware, day after  day the  devil and demons  come toward  us to take 
away joy, hope, faith, peace and love. This is  why we have to drive out 
hatred, anxiety,  frustration, despair,  dispute and  negative hearts  in the 
name of Jesus of  Nazareth. Otherwise, we  will be caught  by the devil. 
and then as vegetables are  deprived of energy by  plant lice and die,  so 
we will lose our belief and hope and become the instruments of the devil. 
Likewise, it is very important to take care of our faith.

  Third, when  we  reap, we  must  offer a   tithe to God.   We read in 
Malachi 3:10-12, " 'Bring the  whole tithe into the  storehouse, that there 
may be food  in my  house. Test me  in this,'  says the Lord  Almighty, 
'and see if I will not  throw open the floodgates of heaven  and pour out 
so much  blessing that  you  will not  have room   enough for it.  I  will 
prevent pests from  devouring your  crops, and  the vines  in your  fields 
will not cast their  fruit,' says the Lord  Almighty. 'Then all the  nations 
will call you blessed, for  yours will be a delightful  land,' says the Lord 
Almighty." If we  work with  God, we must  give a  tithe to him,  for it 
means we declare  partnership with  him. Giving  a tithe  to God  proves 
that we don't  live alone but  with him.  It also proclaims  that God  has  
worked and   given us  prosperity  with his   grace, love  and  blessings. 
Through giving   a tithe,  we declare   that we  honor God   and humble 
ourselves. We don't insist  with pride and arrogance  that we worked on 
our own strength, wisdom, means  and  ways, but we humble  ourselves, 
honor and thank God  for his blessings.  Besides, through giving  a tithe, 
we confess that we don't rob God.
  Rockefeller was a very wealthy  man in America. Yet,  he was from a 
poor farmer's household. At 6 he  began to give a tithe  of 20 cents that 
he received from his mother and continued to do that until he died at 92. 
He said that his mother passed on such a great faith to him that  he had 
many great visions for his  business while praying. He offered  a tithe in 
return for God's favor, so he became  a millionaire. He said, "Those who 
don't give thanks can't be rich."
  Another famous rich  man named Hady  in America once  failed in his 
business and lost his whole  fortune. Then he ran into  a debt of 100,000 
dollars to start a new business,  and offered a tithe of his  debt to  God. 
So his employees  blamed him for  his hypocrisy. He  answered, "Since I 
robbed God   as my   business was  going  well,  I  have  failed  in my 
business. Now repenting of my sin, I have to repay even a tithe of debt." 
Afterward God blessed  him and he  succeeded in his  business again  so 
that he could spend  the end of  his life meaningfully  giving a tithe and   
relieving the   poor. I've   read a   testimony about  one  of  my  church 
members in our  subsidiary church,  who used to  lecture on  a sense  of 
independence in North  Korea but despaired  and fled with  her family to 
South Korea via China.  Her husband died  of brain cancer. She  and her 
children were so disappointed. However, she came to church and accepted 
Jesus and  offered God  a tithe  of resettlement  funds that  she received 
from the government. She had peace in her heart, was eager to pray and 
work.  Now  she  lives  a  happy  life  with  great  confidence  and  joy. 
Likewise, we must give  a tithe of our  harvest so that we  can abide in 
God, be   blessed by  him and   continue to  obtain his   abundant grace. 
Offering with thanks will please God.
  Psalms 50:23 says, "He who  sacrifices thank offerings honors  me, and 
he prepares the way so that I may  show him the salvation of God." We 
should also express our thanks by speaking.
  It is said in Psalms  100:4, "Enter his gates with  thanksgiving and his 
courts with praise; give thanks  to him and praise his  name." and Psalm 
23;1, "The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not be in want." We  should give 
abundant thanks to God by praying, praising and speaking. Giving thanks 
is a fragrant sacrifice, and resentment and complaints are like smoke and 
hot dust. God  will leave those  who give  hot smoke of  resentment and 
complaints. Yet, he will be with those who sacrifice thank offerings. This 
is why we have to give plenty of thanks to God with our lips. And then 
we should thank God with our behavior.
  Proverbs 3:9-10 tells us,  "Honor the Lord  with your wealth, with  the 
firstfruits of all your crops; then your barns will be filled to  overflowing, 
and your  vats will  brim  over with  new wine."  We  should first  give 
thanks to God with the best things. Some people may pray, "Lord, I give 
you the  rest of  what you  gave me."  Then, is  God a  beggar? Before 
using, we should  give the best  thing to God  with earnest hearts.  Why 
should we worship  God on Sunday?  Because it is  the first day  of the 
week. On the  first day,  we sacrifice time  offerings. We  should do  the 
same with materials. Every morning, we have  to get up early, first read 
the word, pray and  thank God. In  this way we should  thank God with 
our deeds.
  Psalms 96:8 says, "Ascribe to  the Lord the glory due  his name; bring 
an offering   and come  into  his courts."   The Scripture  says  that we 
shouldn't come to God without offerings,  but must bring thank offerings 
and come into his  courts. If we  honor God in  this way, he  will let us 
reap a hundred times, sixty times, and thirty  times as much as we sow. 
We should not sow only materials. We  have dreams in our hearts to  be 
a scientist, a  doctor, a  politician, a soldier,  and so  on. When we  plant 
those dreams in  our hearts as  the seed  of faith, God  will bless us  so 
they may  come true.  That's why   before we plant  dreams we  should 
guard our hearts. Before God, the success and failure of man's  life is up 
to his attitude. The Scripture says, "Above all else, guard your heart,  for 
it is the wellspring of life."
  In our hearts, we  plant and take  care of our lives.  God says that  he 
will give us much more than we think  and ask for in our hearts. Hence 
before we sow any dream or seed of our lives, we should first make our 
hearts good soil. God will not  bless us if we have hearts  with paths to, 
rocky places and thorns. By digging out unbelief like the seed along path 
of rocky   places and  removing all   the greed  and avarice,   we should 
change our hearts to good soil.  With all our minds, will and  efforts, our 
hearts should become good soil to serve the Lord, where we have to sow 
the seed and care for  it. In order to  take care of the seed  of our lives, 
we should always  supply living water  of the Holy  Spirit and sunshine. 
We ought to remove clouds  of negativeness, depression and  despair and 
have positive, active, creative  and beautiful attitudes. We  should nourish 
our seed by reading  the word and eliminate  pests by expelling negative 
demons in the name of  Jesus. After caring this way,  we will reap. And 
we should give glory, praise and tithes to God for our harvest. Then God 
will be pleased  and bless us  so that all  may go well  with us in  good 
health and abundant life as our souls are getting along well.
  The Lord says, "As  long as the  earth endures, seedtime  and harvest, 
spring, summer, fall and winter  will never cease."  Hence, every day we 
sow the seed and  reap what we  sow. The Scripture says,  "God cannot 
be mocked. A man reaps  what he sows." We  sow through our thinking 
speaking and acting.  Tomorrow we  will reap  what we sow  today and 
today we reap what we sowed yesterday. Nothing takes  place by chance 
in this world. For we reap  what we sow. We will  have good harvest if 
we sow the good seed but evil if the  bad seed. We can't resent anyone. 
Therefore, we should sow the good  seed in good hearts before  the Lord 
and care for it so that we may be blessed by  God, having abundant life. 
The greatest seed in our lives  is our Lord, Jesus Christ. He  is the seed 
of eternal life for us. If we sow Jesus Christ  in our hearts, we will reap 
eternal life. People may sow  philosophy, ethics, morals and religions,  but 
they will reap weeds. If we  sow Jesus, who came from  heaven, died on 
the cross for us and rose from the dead, we will reap eternal life through 
him,  so   that  we   can  overcome   sin,  secularity,   anxiety,  concern, 
uneasiness, nervousness, despair, diseases, the curse and death. Above all 
else, we should Jesus in our  hearts, so that we may  reap eternal life in 
heaven.
 
-Prayer-
God, our Father who  is holy and has  great love! On this  Thanksgiving 
Day, we do not thank you only for the crops, but we thank you for faith, 
hope, love, righteousness, peace,  joy and happiness  in our lives  through 
your Son. God,  our Father, every  day we  reap what we  reaped before 
and in the future we will reap what we  reap at the present. Our Father, 
please help us plant our dreams in good soil, take good care of them, and 
to sacrifice thank offerings  to you with what  we reap, so that  we may 
be blessed  more and more. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.

