Sunday, October 17th 1999
Title : The Outward and The inward Man
Scripture Reading : 2Co 5:17

  When God made man, He used the dust of the ground 
to shape him  and He  blew life  into man and  brought 
him to   life. It  is recorded   that man  was shaped   in 
God's image. Since  God is  spiritual, it  is natural  that 
the first man  was also  spiritual, residing  in the flesh. 
Man has two natures: the inner spiritual nature and  the 
outward physical  nature. The   spiritual nature of   man 
can recognize and worship God in direct communication. 
Since God created  man as  a spiritual  being, man  can 
communicate with God.
  Animals lack spirits; they cannot recognize God. They 
cannot worship nor praise Him. In all of written history, 
there is not a single mention of any animal species ever 
worshipping God. Since they lack spirits, it is impossible 
for them   to recognize,  worship or   communicate with 
God. Man with  his physical  body can  use his senses: 
eyes to see, ears  to hear, and  he can smell,  taste and 
touch the   world around  him.  Man  can take   in and 
understand the material world and its environment.
  Adam and  Eve  worshipped God   spiritually as  they 
physically   ruled   this  material   world   in   complete 
harmony. There was no disunion at  all. However, when 
we look at ourselves, we can see there is disunion.  Our 
physical nature and  our spiritual nature  are in conflict. 
How did this happen to us?
  We must first start  with the fall  of man. After  God 
created man and placed him in the  Garden of Eden, He 
commanded man not  to eat  fruit from the  tree of  the 
knowledge of  good  and evil.   Only God,  the absolute 
Master of the universe has  that authority, and man-his 
creature, does   not and   must not  infringe  upon  that 
authority. God  allowed  him to  eat  every fruit  except 
that fruit of the knowledge of good and evil and that he 
would die  on  that day.   When we  try to   usurp His 
authority, that  leads to  certain death.  Even so,  Adam 
and Eve   were tricked   by Satan   and ate   the fruit, 
rebelling against God,  and dying  spiritually, they  were 
evicted from the Garden.
  Now, the inward man-the spiritual man died and only 
the outward   man-the physical  man  lived. Since   that 
time, he has been a miserable being. Man lost his sense 
of direction. He doesn't know  where he came from nor 
where he is  headed. Having lost  God and his  spiritual 
nature, how  could  he understand   himself? Since  that 
day, man has  wondered where he  came from, why  he 
lives, and where  he is  headed. As  a possible  answer, 
man came  up with  Darwin's  theory of  evolution. All 
creatures began with amoebas and  evolved and evolved 
and evolved to  become man. Many  men have accepted 
this  foolishness  and  acted  upon   it. Man   has truly 
become a  miserable  being since   his spirit died.   Man 
who was supposed to live with God was  thrown out of 
the spiritual realm and was abandoned.
  It is written in Genesis 3:24, "After he drove the man 
out, he placed on  the east side  of the Garden of  Eden 
cherubim and a flaming  sword flashing back  and forth 
to guard the way  to the tree of  life." Man was kicked 
out. How could  anything be more  miserable than this? 
Man  has  become  a  being  of  despair.  Having  been 
evicted and dying  spiritually, he  became a  prisoner to 
sin and   despair, losing  the  meaning of   life, and  he 
became hopeless. Having to  face real death, he  became 
a being without hope, a being of despair.
  We  read   in  Romans   7:5,  "For  when   we  were 
controlled  by  the  sinful   nature, the   sinful passions 
aroused by the law were at work in our bodies, so that 
we bore fruit  for death." All  men seek  gratification of 
their carnal desires, their inner lust and physical lust. In 
so doing,  men  commit sin,   which in the   end brings 
about eternal death. Man also lives life as  a prisoner of 
his own  senses and  the environment.  Since his   spirit 
has died, he  can no longer  live according  to God, but 
must live according to his physical nature, becoming  its 
prisoner. Only through  his senses,  can he  see himself 
and the world around  him. He suffers  hunger, physical 
pain, and pain from old age.
  It is written  in Ephesians  2:3, "All  of us  also lived 
among them at one time, gratifying the  cravings of our 
sinful nature  and following   its desires and   thoughts."  
Not only  this, but   man now has   become a slave  to 
Satan. It is  written in John  8:44, "You belong  to your 
father, the devil."
  It is written in Titus  3:3, "At one time  we too were 
foolish, disobedient, deceived  and enslaved by  all kinds 
of passions and pleasures." This is the  nature of Satan.  
Fallen man  became  open to  Satan  and becoming  his 
slave acquired all his nature.  As a result, he  became a 
sick being destined to die. It is written in  Romans 6:23, 
"For the wages of sin is death."
  It  is  written  in  Hebrews  9:27,  "Just   as man   is 
destined to die  once, and after  that to face  judgment." 
Man became a miserable being who  could not escape a 
miserable death. 
Who could save such  a man? Since  he had fallen  and 
could not  know God  but was  filled with  all  sorts of 
corruption and vile,  who could  save such  a despicable 
life?  Philosophy?  Religion?  Education?   Meditation or 
ethics? We  all know  through experience  that none  of 
these things can  cleanse and  make man a  new being. 
That is why  2000 years  ago, God so  loved the  world 
that He gave His  only begotten Son  so that we  could 
become reborn through Jesus Christ. God is not a  tailor 
who fixes torn  clothing. Just as  new wine is  put into 
new bags, we must wear completely new clothing.  Man 
cannot patch up his old self. "Whosoever is in  Christ is 
a new creation.  Look, the old  has passed  away, he is 
made new."  God  created Adam  and   Eve and  made 
mankind a  new  being through   Jesus Christ.  That is 
why  Christ came to  the world to pay  for the sins of 
mankind.
  It is written in 1 John 2:2, "He is the atoning sacrifice 
for our sins, and not only for ours but also for the sins 
of the whole  world." All of  our sins  are cleansed and 
we are at peace with  God. Through the blood of  Jesus 
Christ, God approaches  us and  we have been  given a 
path to  God since   our sins have  been  forgiven. The 
very suffering Christ bore on the cross  resuscitated our 
inward man. We,  who had no  idea about  ourselves or 
about God  because our  inward selves   had died, were 
brought to life by  Christ. When we  accepted Christ as 
our Savior,   eternal life  entered  into us   reviving our 
spirits. This allowed  us to recognize  God and make  it 
possible for us  to call  God our  Father, and  to finally 
realize that we are spiritual beings;  we were molded in 
the image of our God, and not mere physical beings.
  It is  written in  John 3:5-6,  "No one   can enter the 
kingdom of  God unless  he is  born  of water  and the 
Spirit. Flesh gives  birth to  flesh, but  the Spirit  gives 
birth to spirit." We  were born from our  parents in the 
flesh. However, when we accept  Christ,  we are reborn 
in the  Spirit.  Once we   are reborn,  we can   worship, 
serve, and glorify God. Our bodies become holy  temples 
where the Holy Spirit resides.
  It is written in  1 Corinthians 3:16,  "Don't you know 
that you  yourselves are  God's temple  and that  God's 
Spirit lives in you?"  Before we believed  in Christ, evil 
spirits came to reside in us. These evil spirits prevented 
us from knowing God. They dragged us  along the road 
of death and curses, as we  became slaves to  lust and 
corruption. All the people of this world  have evil spirits 
in  them,  deceiving  them.  However,  through  Christ's 
death and  resurrection,  He drove  out  evil spirits.  He 
drove out the 'world,' and occupies us through the Holy 
Spirit so  that  we can   realize the  truth about   God's 
Kingdom.  The  Holy  Spirit  helps  us  recognize  God, 
worship Him and  serve Him. Christ  also came to  help 
us live holy lives. Although we were blind, now we can 
see, hear, read and understand God's Word and meditate 
upon it. We kneel down to pray in Christ's name.
  The new man also gives thanks to God even when he 
faces difficulties; he does not forget  to praise God. The 
new man finds  himself doing  many new things  as he 
enters a new world. Before meeting Christ, did you ever 
read the  Bible,  pray to  God,  give thanks   and praise 
Him? No,  you didn't,  because you  were of  the flesh. 
But your spirit has  been revived as evidenced  by your 
reading, praying, thanking and praising God.
  Look at  Psalm 103:2-5.  It is   what the reborn  man 
prays and  says.  "Praise the   LORD, O my   soul, and 
forget not  all his  benefits-who forgives   all your sins 
and heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from 
the pit and crowns you with  love and compassion, who 
satisfies your  desires  with good   things so that   your 
youth   is   renewed   like   the   eagle's."   This   new 
relationship is established between  God and us.   When 
Christ  comes,  He  makes  us  special  citizens  of  the 
Kingdom of God.
  It is written in  1 Peter 2:9,  "But  you are  a chosen 
people,  a  royal  priesthood,  a  holy  nation,   a people 
belonging to God." Now, we have become people chosen 
by God-His  holy nation,   and royal priests.   Isn't this 
truly a   special privilege?   God has  taken  us  out of 
darkness and   made it   possible for   us to  enter  the 
Kingdom of the Son.  You and I  no longer live  in this 
'world,' but are now part  of the Kingdom of God.  God 
has become our Father and Christ has become our King 
and  our   groom,  the  Holy   Spirit  has  become   our 
protector and a host of angels surround us to protect us 
from harm as we  become blessed people  and a chosen 
nation. We were  dead but  were made  alive; we  were 
lost but   were found  again.  We  must now   live like 
spiritual beings-the inward man, and not live  merely as 
physical beings. Worldly people, because their spirits are 
dead, live  as physical  beings, but   Christians, as their 
spirits have been revived, must not live as such.
  To live like  spiritual beings, what  must we do?  We 
must stand firm on the grounds  of Christ's redemption. 
We must never forget the grace of  Jesus Christ Whose 
body  was  torn  and  Who  bled  to  provide  us  with 
spiritual resuscitation. We must wholly  accept the truth 
that through the  cross, we  have been  forgiven of our 
sins and  have been  made righteous.  We must  wholly 
accept the truth that through the cross, Christ drove out 
the devil  from  us and   gave us the   Holy Spirit  and 
heaven. The spiritual man must wholly accept  the truth 
that Jesus Christ  drove sadness away  and in its  place 
gave us  joy, and  that He  carried our  ills to  give us 
health. The spiritual man must wholly accept that Christ 
conquered  our  curse,  conquered  poverty  to  give  us 
blessings and well being. Lastly, the spiritual man must 
wholly accept that  Christ has destroyed  death and hell 
for the faithful  and has  given resurrection,  eternal life 
and heaven to them.
  The physical   man cannot  accept any   of this.  The 
rational man   cannot know   this either.  However,  the 
spiritual man  must accept  in full  the five  fold gospel 
which Christ has laid out for us at the foot of the cross 
and must  live a  life  that is  made well   even as our 
spirits are made well so that we could  live lives full of 
dreams.
  It is written in Ephesians 2:8, "For it is by grace you 
have been   saved, through   faith -and   this not  from 
yourselves, it is  the gift  of God."  When we   have a 
tight  hold  on  the   five fold   gospel  and  three  fold 
blessings which God granted to us through Jesus Christ, 
we can have  faith and dream,  allowing us to  live like 
spiritual beings.  The inward   person always loves   the 
Word of God,  reads it  and lives  according to  it. The 
Word of God is dynamic and living, and is sharper than 
any  sword,  striking  deep   down to   our  bones  and 
marrow. The Word cleanses you  and me, and helps  us 
grow in faith. Also, the  inward man must communicate 
with the Holy  Spirit asking  Him to  always guide  the 
way. The  Spirit of  God  comes to  us to  become  our 
Counselor   and   stays   by   us.   We   must   always 
acknowledge the Holy Spirit, accept Him and depend  on 
Him.
  It is written in Romans  8:14, "Those who are  led by 
the Spirit of  God are  sons of  God." And in  Galatians 
5:16, "Live  by the Spirit,  and you will not  gratify the 
desires  of the sinful nature." The Holy Spirit comes  to 
us in order  to guide us,  and if we   live according  to 
the guidance of  the Holy  Spirit, He  guides us  to live 
while enjoying God's love and Christ's  grace. Also, the 
inward   man   must   live    according   to   the   Ten 
Commandments. "You shall not have another god before 
me. Do not bow to an idol. Do not blaspheme the name 
of God.  Keep the  Sabbath holy. Respect your  parents. 
Do not commit murder.  Do not fornicate.  Do not steal. 
Do not bear false witness. Do not covet your neighbors' 
properties."
  For the inward man,  these are easy  to keep. To the 
outward man, this  is next  to impossible. The  outward 
man simply   has no   means to  keep  them.  However, 
when you have been reborn and become a divine  being, 
these commandments  are very  easy to  keep. Actually, 
keeping these commandments are a joy and a source  of 
great peace.   While the  outward  man  finds them   an 
impossible obstacle which  leads them  to judgment, the 
inward man  finds them  a joy  and so   very  easy to 
keep, and   a source  of  great peace   in his  life.  The 
inward man must also be always awakened to the  hope 
of heaven and must witness to others.
  It is written  in 1  Thessalonians 5:5-6,  "You are  all 
sons of   the light  and sons   of the  day. We   do not 
belong to the night or  to the darkness. So  then, let us 
not be like others,  who are asleep,  but let us  be alert 
and self-controlled." We must not be  asleep like others. 
We must not  let sin, greed,  or carnal  desires drag us 
down into   a slumber.   We must   not be   drunk and 
deaden our spiritual senses, dragging us to a slumber of 
damnation. We must be awake and alert brushing off all 
that defiles us. In an  alert state, we must wait  for our 
Lord,  worshipping   Him,  praising   Him,  and   having 
fellowship with other Christians.
  It is written in 2  Timothy, 4:1-2, "In the presence  of 
God and of Christ Jesus, who  will judge the living and 
the dead, and in view of his appearing and his kingdom, 
I give you this charge: Preach the Word; be prepared in 
season and out of  season." We who are  inward beings 
know of the  coming Kingdom  of Christ  and we must 
spread  this news. Whether in  season or out, we  must 
help those who live in darkness to avoid hell and accept 
heaven. In hell, their bodies will be torn and eaten away 
by spiritual maggots, and  they will burn in  the eternal 
fire, shaking  and withering.  We must  tell them  about 
this. We must tell  them that if  they do not  believe in 
Jesus Christ but live in the flesh, they will go to hell to 
be eaten away and  burn in eternal suffering.  We must 
further tell them  that they  must believe  in Christ,  be 
forgiven and   saved so  that they   can enter  into  the 
joyous  heaven.  We   who are   spiritual  beings  must 
always be  awake.  Before we  had faith in  Christ, we 
lived in the  flesh and were  led by the   physical man. 
However, since believing in Christ, the  inward man has 
come to life  and the once  fallen outward man  tries to 
interfere  in  every  way   possible. Since   believing in 
Christ, there is  a conflict between  the inward  and the 
outward man.
  Paul said  in Romans  7:18-24, "I  know that  nothing 
good lives  in me,  that is,  in my  sinful nature.  For I 
have the desire to do what  is good, but I cannot  carry 
it out. For what I do is not the  good I want to do; no, 
the evil I  do not  want to do  - this  I keep on  doing. 
Now if I do what I do not want  to  do, it is no longer 
I who do it, but it is sin living in me that does it. So I 
find this law at work: When I want  to do good, evil is 
right there with me. For in my  inner being I delight in 
God's law;   but I   see another   law at  work  in  the 
members of my  body, waging  war against the  law of 
my mind and making me a prisoner of the law of sin at 
work within my members. What a wretched  man I am! 
Who will rescue me from  this body of death?"  This is 
something only a  reborn person can  experience. Before 
being reborn, since  the outward man  has total  control, 
such conflict does not arise.
  Once reborn, the  inward man tries  to stay holy  and 
face heaven while  the outward  man tries to  drag him 
down. This results in constant conflict between the two. 
Even the Apostle Paul lamented that he was a wretched 
man needing   someone to  save  him from   his cursed 
outward self.  However,  giving thanks  to  God is   like 
crucifying the outward man  on the cross.  Our outward 
man has been nailed to the cross  and has died and our 
inward man   has been  resurrected with   Jesus Christ. 
That is why we must  look only toward Christ and  not 
fear letting our outward man die on the cross. We must 
envision our outward man being nailed to the cross and 
being buried deep into the earth.  We must envision our 
inward  selves  being  resurrected   and becoming   new 
beings always in  our thoughts  and dreams.  Whenever 
the outward man causes conflict, he must be put on the 
cross. "You, the  outward man, has  been nailed  on the 
cross with    Jesus. You   have no  control  over  me." 
Whenever the outward man  lifts up his  head, he must 
be nailed on  the cross.  "You cannot drag  me into  sin 
again. Be gone." We  must  confront our outward  man. 
Our lives   must be   one of  continued  nailing  of our 
outward man on the cross.
  The Apostle Paul said that  he died every day. Every 
day we must nail  our outward man.  The Apostle Paul 
said that he  died on the  cross every  day with Christ. 
We must also crucify  our old selves  on the cross  and 
must live with Christ as inward men. The Apostle  Paul 
tells us that when we do so, our outward man begin to 
decay while  our inward   selves become anew   day by 
day. Crucifying   him on   the cross  day  by  day  will 
weaken the  outward man.  Then  the inward  man can 
become filled with the Word of God, the Holy Spirit and 
God's grace  to become  full  of life  as we  walk  with 
Christ. All of us are descendants of Adam and Eve and 
died even as  we were  abandoned, making  us blind to 
where we came from,  why we live  and where we  are 
headed. But through the amazing grace  of Jesus Christ, 
and through Jesus Christ Himself, our outward man has 
been crucified and buried, and our inward man has been 
resurrected. This allows us  to live as  holy people who 
some day will shed this outer physical casing and  enter 
into eternal heaven with Christ where we can serve and 
glorify Jesus  Christ. What  we see  around us  is brief 
and temporary; what can't be seen  is eternal. We must 
not follow   the man  we can  see with  our eyes,   but 
follow the inner  being which can't  be seen, and  serve 
the Lord.  I  pray that   all of you   become those  who 
follow the Holy Spirit.

-Prayer-
Oh, holy and  glorious Father  God, From  the time  we 
were born from the  wombs of our mothers,  our spirits 
died and we came into this  world with physical bodies, 
which led  us to  live worldly  lives. We  knew nothing 
other than this world. However, through the salvation of 
Jesus Christ, we  have realized that  there is a  spiritual 
world beyond this world-one  that is eternal.  We thank 
You for opening  our eyes  to this  truth through  Jesus 
Christ. Oh  Father  God, although  we  live in   constant 
conflict between   the outward   man which   desires to 
follow the world and  the inward man which  desires to 
follow God's Law, we know  that the outward man has 
already been crucified.  We know that  our inward  man 
can  indeed   overcome  the   outward man   when   we 
continue to   crucify the   outward man   on the   cross. 
Father God, help us have blessed faith lives even as our 
inward man finds joy in  your laws and meditates upon 
them. By   keeping your   laws, we   can live  lives  of 
servitude. I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

