Sunday, August 8th 1999
Taking the Kingdom of Heaven by Force
Scripture Reading : Mt 11:12

  According to  a military  specialist,  in order  for one 
nation to invade  another and  win the war,  it needs  a 
military force at least  more than three  times as much. 
Considering this  fact, we   can understand what   Jesus 
says. He says, "From the days of John the Baptist until 
now,  the   kingdom  of   heaven  has  been   forcefully 
advancing, and forceful men lay hold  of it." In order to 
possess the heavenly blessing  that the Lord  has given 
us, we  have to   advance with tremendous   might and 
effort of prayer and faith  and make a strong resolution 
without compromising. The  kingdom of heaven  doesn't 
come to  us automatically.   The promise of   grace and 
blessing that Jesus bought through His suffering on the 
cross, and as  the Israelites  took the  promised land of 
Canaan by a  severe battle,  we can  take by  defeating 
the devil through a strong battle  with prayer and faith. 
In order to do that, our minds must be ready.

  First, we have to see the promise  land clearly in our 
minds. Unless  we know  where to  enter and  what to 
take, we  can't win.  As  God exactly  told Joshua   the 
territory that   the Israelites  would take,   He definitely 
says the land of  grace that we have to occupy.
  In Joshua 1:3-4,  "I will give  you every place  where 
you set your foot, as  I promised Moses. Your  territory 
will extend from  the desert  to Lebanon, and  from the 
great river, the  Euphrates-- all the  Hittite country  -- 
to the Great  Sea on  the west,"  obviously said  He to 
Joshua about the bounds of the land to take.
  In  Deuteronomy  7:13-15,   God promised   what  He 
would do when they entered the land, "He will love you 
and bless you and increase your numbers. He will bless 
the fruit of your womb,  the crops of your land--  your 
grain, new wine and oil-- the calves of your herds and 
the lambs of your flocks  in the land that  He swore to 
your forefathers to give you.  You will be blessed more 
than any other people; none of your men or women will 
be childless, nor  any of your  livestock without  young. 
The Lord  will keep  you free  from every  disease. He 
will not inflict on you the horrible diseases you knew in 
Egypt, but He  will inflict on  them all  who hate you." 
As God plainly  showed Joshua the  territory to  occupy 
and what sort of grace  He would grant, so He  lets us 
clearly know the land  of grace that He  gave to us by 
the redemption through Jesus on the cross. We  have to 
take the land  where we  can be  forgiven and justified 
through the cross of Jesus Christ. The  Lord tells us to 
occupy the land the devil and the world have taken and 
to make it filled  with heaven and the  Holy Spirit. Our 
Lord   tells  us   to   take  the   land   of  healing   by 
exterminating diseases through  His cross and  the land 
of heavenly joy by removing sorrow. He tells us in His 
name to   take the  land of   blessing by  defeating the 
curse and the land  of abundance by  repulsing poverty. 
He also tells us to destroy  death and hell in His  name 
and to take the land of resurrection, heaven  and eternal 
life, so that we may enjoy good health, that all may go 
well with us, even as our  souls are getting along well, 
and that we may  have abundant life.  Isaiah prophesied 
the land  that  the Lord   would have about   600 years 
before He came.
  Isaiah   53:4-5  states,   "Surely   He  took   up   our 
infirmities and carried  our sorrows,  yet we  considered 
Him stricken by God, smitten by Him, and afflicted. But 
He was pierced for our transgressions, He  was crushed 
for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace 
was upon  Him, and  by His  wounds, we  are healed." 
Christ's suffering  on the  cross was   done by God  to 
grant us  the  land of  Canaan  flowing with  milk  and 
honey. As God prepared Canaan for the Israelites, so He 
grants the land of milk and honey under the cross.
  Today, many Christians don't  enter the land  of milk 
and honey, for they don't know what it is and where it 
is. However, now we should not look up to the cross of 
Jesus Christ   religiously and  formally  but  we should 
know  that  the  cross  is  the  place  where  God  has 
prepared for us the new world and land. Apart from the 
cross, we can't  obtain anything.  The land  that Adam 
and Eve lost  at Eden, Jesus  bought for  us by paying 
the  priceless  cost, shedding  blood on  the cross.  We 
must   occupy  the   land.   How  great   the  land   of 
forgiveness for sin we have! Though  we deserve to be 
forsaken for   our sins,  unrighteousness,  filth and   are 
filled with disgrace  and shame,  we can  take the  land 
where we can be  cleansed by Jesus' blood  by praying 
to Him, from disgrace and shame  and show up to Him 
in glory in the dress of righteousness. People reject God 
and live without Him, filled  with the devil so they  live 
with the lust of the flesh and eyes and the pride of this 
earth. Yet, since  the Lord  fills them with  heaven and 
the Holy Spirit  by destroying the  devil and  secularity, 
we should take the beautiful  land He prepared. This  is 
ours,  for  He   has granted   us  the   land. Moreover, 
suffering from diseases is not the will of God.
  When I visited  Sweden and  Copenhagen, I  felt that 
they were  so  rich. If  the  youth over  18  leave their 
homes,  the   government  supplies   them  with   living 
expenses until they get  a job and  become independent. 
The government provides  their people  with everything 
including unemployment allowance and hospital expenses 
from primary  school through  college. No  wonder they 
pay high taxes. They pay tax between 60% and 70% of 
their salaries. But even in such  a wealthy country, due 
to the easy life,  they are so  depressed that more  than 
70% of   their population  have to   take medicine.  The 
whole world is affected  by diseases. The Lord  tells us 
to remove   those diseases   and to   take the   land of 
Canaan which fills us with God's joy. We  must occupy 
the land. He  tells us  to defeat  poverty and  the curse 
and to take the land of  blessing; to destroy the eternal 
fall of death  and to  take resurrection,  eternal life  and 
heaven. What the Lord has purchased we  have to take. 
Though the Lord told  the Israelites that  He had given 
them the land flowing with milk and honey, they had to 
take it  little  by little   through fierce  fights but   they 
didn't get it without effort. Hence, we have to certainly 
realize under the cross what the land of grace the Lord 
gave to us is and surely know what our goals are.

  Second, in order to  take the kingdom  of heaven, we 
should use   the principle  of visualization.   Though we 
don't hold something,  we have  to visualize it  as if  it 
were. Then we can have it. Those who  have no dream 
won't possess  anything. If  we cherish  dreams though 
they  seem  unreasonable,   God  will  be  with   them. 
Because He is  the God who  raises the dead  and calls 
things that are  not as if  they were, He  will work for 
those who visualize things that are not as if they were.
  We read   in Genesis   13:14-17, "The   Lord said  to 
Abram after  Lot had  parted from  him, 'Lift   up your 
eyes from where you are and look north and south, east 
and west. All the land  that you see I will  give to you 
and your offspring  forever. I will  make your  offspring 
like the dust of the earth, so that if anyone could count 
the dust, then your offspring could be counted. Go, walk 
through the length  and breadth  of the  land, for  I am 
giving it  to you.'"  Before the  Lord gave  the land  of 
Canaan to Abram, He  said to him,  "Lift up your  eyes 
north and south,  east and west.  All the land  that you 
see I will give to you and  your offspring forever." The 
Lord didn't say  that he would  give what is  not seen, 
looked at nor dreamed.
  Today, all the great  achievements of man  have been 
fulfilled by those who cherished  dreams in their hearts. 
David was   a little   shepherd, then   how did   he kill 
Goliath? The Israelite armies  with King Saul withdrew 
with  fear  but  David  went  toward  Goliath.  Because 
David thought of Goliath  as a bear or  a lion not as  a 
man. While he tended his father's sheep, if a  bear or a 
lion tried to take  away a lamb, he  ran after them and 
took  the   lamb  back   and  killed   them.  With   that 
experience he considered Goliath as a bear or a lion, so 
he could advance without fear. In order to take the land 
of Canaan that our Lord gives, we have to keep looking 
up to the cross and possess the fivefold  gospel and the 
threefold blessing   in our  hearts. We   should have  in 
hearts what Christ bought by  shedding His blood as if 
it were. We should  keep forgiveness and  righteousness 
in our hearts. We should also  have a dream of heaven, 
the fullness of the Holy Spirit, healing, joy, the freedom 
from the curse,  and the  blessings of  Abraham all the 
time. We have  to dream that  we leave death  and hell 
and live  with  Christ forever   in glorious heaven.   We 
believers in Jesus should become those who dream with 
the  Holy  Spirit.   Those who   are  gloomy,  negative, 
disappointed   and  dejected,   looking  at   the  present, 
hearing, smelling, and tasting  and touching can  not be 
called Christians. We  should lift up  our eyes and  look 
up to the cross of Christ.
  Hebrews 12:2 says, "Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the 
author and perfecter of our faith."  Looking up to Jesus, 
we should  dream of   what He did  for  us. When  we 
always look up to  the cross and  dream, God will  help 
us through the  Holy Spirit. Likewise,  those who make 
use of the  law of visualization  and who  have dreams, 
God will allow to occupy the land of Canaan.

  Third, we   should pray  fervently.  We should   enter 
with prayer.  As the  Israelites got   into Canaan in  all 
their strength with arms, so  we have to pray strongly. 
We should pray severely.
  Jeremiah 33:3  says, "Call  to me  and  I will  answer 
you." "Call to me," doesn't mean to  pray quietly but to 
cry out heartily.
  We read in Psalm 57:2, "I cry out to God Most High, 
to God, who fulfills His purpose for me." We should cry 
out. If we have to pray silently, we are deceived by the 
devil. When   we come  to God,   we have  to cry   out 
strongly like a child and ask repeatedly often.
  Psalm 88:1-2 says, "O Lord,  the God who saves  me, 
day and night I  cry out before  you. May prayer come 
before you; turn your  ear to my  cry." When we  often 
cry out day and  night, we will  triumph. We must  not 
be discouraged but stay close to God till we overcome.
  Luke 18:1 says, "Jesus told His disciples  a parable to 
show them that they  should always pray and  not give 
up," and the  verse 7  also says, "Will   not God  bring 
about justice for His chosen ones,  who cry out to Him 
day and night? Will He keep putting them off?" Take a 
look. When we strongly cry  out to God day and  night, 
saying our dreams  and desires,  He will answer  us. If 
we pray   once in   a blue  moon,  we  can't  take  the 
kingdom of heaven. When we pray fervently,  repeatedly 
often and   depend on  Him without   being discouraged 
until we conquer, we will defeat the devil and enter into 
the kingdom of God.

  Fourth, we should be courageous and  bold. If we are 
afraid, we can do nothing. I often feel that when I have 
a crusade   abroad. Everything  is different   from ours: 
way of  life, people,   and culture. In  order  to conquer 
them with  the gospel  so that  they may  accept Jesus 
and be  healed, I   must be very  bold.  I must  not be 
afraid. In my  country people excuse  me for  my faults 
because we  have the  same culture   and face and  are 
brethren, but in  foreign countries  they don't  and they 
laugh at me. Therefore, not  to make a mistake,  I have 
to be courageous and fearless, but it doesn't work well. 
I must pray  on earnestly  to the Lord  at least  over 3 
hours. It  is a  great burden  in my  heart, for   without 
prayer I feel very  afraid. Yet, after  praying to God  at 
least 3 hours, I  feel confident. No matter  what anxiety 
and fear may  come, my heart  does not move.  Then I 
can boldly proclaim the gospel. It is  so important to be 
strong  and  courageous.   We need   to  have  a   deep 
meditation  on  God.  The  relationship  through  prayer 
makes us   strong and  courageous. That's   why those 
who'd like  to be  strong  and bold  should pray,   pray, 
pray  and  have  a long   session with God,   then His 
grace  will   be  poured   upon  us   and  we   will  be 
strengthened and courageous.
  In Joshua  1:6-7, God  told Joshua  to be  strong and 
courageous  before  entering  Canaan,  "Be  strong  and 
courageous, because you will lead these people to inherit 
the land I swore  to their forefathers  to give them.  Be 
strong and very courageous. Be  careful to obey all  the 
law my servant Moses gave you; do not turn from it to 
the right  or to  the  left, that  you may  be  successful 
wherever you go." Likewise, to have strong courage, we 
have to know  God. How  strong and  bold David was! 
For he was  aware of God.  Saul and his  people didn't 
know God,   but David   experienced Him.  People  who 
know God can be strong and  courageous. If God is for 
us, who can be against us? We can become strong and 
bold. How do we know God?
  Today, we may continue to  ask Him for only  vision, 
dreams and revelation,  but He  doesn't always  answer 
the request. Since God has  already given us the Word, 
if we are close to it, we can become intimate with Him. 
Every day, try to read His Word and meditate on it, so 
you will be sure to be very near to Him. The more we 
are  intimate  with  God,   the more   we  will  become 
courageous.
  In Joshua 1:8-9,  after God told  Joshua to  be strong 
and courageous, He  showed him the  way, "Do not  let 
this Book of the Law depart from your mouth; meditate 
on it day and night,  so that you may be  careful to do 
everything written in  it. Then  you will  be prosperous 
and successful. Have I not  commanded you? Be strong 
and  courageous.   Do  not   be  terrified;   do  not   be 
discouraged, for the  Lord your  God will  be with  you 
wherever you  go."  Like this,  God  told Joshua  to  be 
strong and courageous  and not  to be terrified,  for He 
would be with him. In  order to know that, to  read the 
Word of God and  meditate on it  day and night  is the 
best way. If we deeply meditate on the Word  and have 
a relationship   with God  through  prayer, we   will be 
clothed with Him, so  His Spirit will  come into us and 
we will be strong and courageous.  I love this Word so 
much because   without strength  and  courage I   don't 
preach the gospel to all creatures. I deeply feel it.
  Even in Europe,  they disregard  us. The  Occidentals 
feel superior to the Orientals  and would overwhelm us. 
In order to  conquer and  lead them,  I must  be strong 
and courageous. We have to  stare at them. If  we turn 
from their  sight,  we will   be overcome.  We have  to 
stare at  them and  be confident  and bold  in speaking 
and doing. Then  sinners are defeated  by divine  power 
and the devil is driven out. The occidental devil is very 
strong so I must be  strengthened to expel him. I  must 
be strong   and courageous   and not   be terrified  and 
dismayed.
  Therefore, if we meditate  on the Word,  be aware of 
God, are intimate with  Him and are  clothed with Him, 
who can be against us? If we are clothed with God, the 
devil may come in  one way and  will flee in seven.  In 
order to  take Canaan  that God   has given to  us, we 
must be strong and courageous.

  Fifth, we  have to  speak strongly   and confess with 
our mouths.  After we  pray a  lot and  have faith,  we 
should not deny with our mouths.
  Romans 10:10 says,  "It is  with your  heart that you 
believe and are justified, and it is with your mouth that 
you confess and  are saved." Even  as to  salvation, we 
have to  confess that  we are   saved with our  mouths 
after believing. If we believe and say we are not saved, 
our salvation will be cancelled. We  should confess with 
our mouths   for God  to remember   us. No  doubt He 
knows us. Yet by confessing with  our mouths, He will 
remember us.
  In Isaiah 62:6-7 we read, "I have posted watchmen on 
your walls, O Jerusalem;  they will never be  silent day 
or night. You who call on the Lord,  give yourselves no 
rest, and give Him no rest till He establishes Jerusalem 
and makes her the praise  of the earth." If  we continue 
to  confess   the Word   with   our mouths,   God  will 
remember us  and have   no rest. Until  He  fulfills the 
Word, recall and confess it with our mouths.
  Nehemiah 13:31  says, "Remember  me with  favor, O 
my God." We  must confess  with our  mouths so  God 
will remember us.
  John 16:23 reads, "I tell you the truth, my Father will 
give you whatever you ask in my name." If we keep on 
confessing before God His promise in Jesus' name,  He 
will remember us. Besides, if  we say this to ourselves, 
we can be encouraged. It is very important we say this 
to ourselves. After we speak to God, we have to say  it 
to  ourselves but not to the devil nor our neighbors.
  Hebrews 10:35-38 states, "So do not throw away your 
confidence; it   will be  richly  rewarded.  You need   to 
persevere so that when you have done  the will of God, 
you will receive  what He has  promised. For in  just a 
very little while, 'He who is coming will come and will 
not delay. But my righteous one will live  by faith, And 
if he  shrinks back,  I will  not be  pleased with  him.'" 
Therefore, not  to shrink  back, we  have  to encourage 
ourselves.  "Calm  yourself.  Why  are  you  afraid  and 
dismayed?  God  is   with you.   Don't  be  afraid  and 
dismayed." At   times I  can hear   my voice  from my 
heart.  If  I  am  discouraged,  I  hear,  "Why  are  you 
downcast?" At first I thought that was the voice of the 
Holy Spirit, but in fact, it turned out to be the voice  of 
my  spirit  in  me.  I  encourage  myself.  "Do   not be 
depressed.  Do   not  give   up hope.   Be   strong  and 
courageous." If we confess with our lips over and  over, 
we can hear it  and it will encourage  us, give us faith 
and strengthen us.  He who  doesn't encourage  himself 
can't become strong  and bold. If  we confess with  our 
mouths frequently, the  devil will be  broken. The  devil 
will perish when he hears the Word of  God. The Word 
of God is like the fire  which burns the woods and like 
the club which breaks a rock. Hence, if  we confess the 
Word, the  devil will  be  weakened on  account of  the 
Word.
  We read in Matthew 12:29, "How can  anyone enter a 
strong man's house and carry off his possessions unless 
he first ties up  the strong man?  Then he can  rob his 
house." If   we are  to  tie up   the devil,  we  have to 
weaken him.  If we  often confess  the Word  with  our 
lips, the Word  will attack  the devil  and weaken  him. 
Since our mouth confession  brings a fatal  blow to the 
devil, we have to  confess with lips at  all times. If we 
confess, we hand a sword over to the Holy Spirit.
  Ephesians 6:17  says, "Take  the  helmet of  salvation 
and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God."
  Hebrews 4:12  also  tells us,  "The  Word of   God is 
living  and  active.   Sharper than   any  doubled-edged 
sword, it  penetrates even  to  dividing soul  and spirit, 
joints and marrow." Since the Word is the sword of the 
Holy Spirit, when  we often  confess it,  He will  pierce 
the devil with the sword of the  Word. Therefore, if we 
leave  alone  the   kingdom of   heaven  that  God  has 
prepared, we don't possess it.
  Today the devil keeps us from entering  into it. Since 
the Bible says, "From the days of John the Baptist until 
now,  the   kingdom  of   heaven  has  been   forcefully 
advancing, and forceful men lay hold of it," we  have to 
take it and enter  into it. If  we clearly know  what the 
kingdom of heaven  is like,  have a  dream to  get into 
heaven, pray fervently, confess strongly and boldly with 
our lips,  then  the kingdom   of heaven that   the Lord 
prepared will be  ours. Because the  Israelites disobeyed 
God and didn't take the land of Canaan, they made Him 
sad. However,  we should  possess all  the promises  of 
grace that our Lord, Jesus made by shedding His blood. 
Then His suffering on the cross will not be in vain but 
valid. God   earnestly wishes  all of   you to  enter the 
garden of grace made by the cross of Jesus so that you 
may live victorious lives abundantly.

-Prayer-
  Dear loving and holy God, our  Father, thinking about 
the grace and  love of  the Lord,  how can we  express 
our thanks? Our God  sent Jesus and  by His blood  on 
the cross You prepared the land of Canaan flowing with 
milk and  honey, where  there are   forgiveness, heaven, 
healing,   joy,  prosperity,   blessings,  resurrection   and 
eternal life.  Dear  Father, all   those things  are ready! 
Right under the cross!  If we definitely  know that, and 
pray to our Father  with a resolute  decision, possess it 
with dreams, have  it with faith,  confess with lips  and 
advance, all of  us can occupy  the land of  Canaan the 
Lord has  granted  us. Among  the  Israelites, the   first 
people didn't get  into Canaan and  they died, but  their 
descendants entered. Please,  help us  not become  those 
who just  pass by  the wilderness  but  like those  who 
enter Canaan. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.

