Sunday, April 4th 1999
Title :  The  Resurrection and   The Way of   Jesus 
Christ
Scripture Reading : Jn 14:1-7

  Have you ever gone astray and wandered around in a 
thick forest or in a big city which has  many buildings? 
You    may    not    express    feelings    of    despair, 
embarrassment, and fear that you had then. Likewise, if 
we lost the  way of  success and blessing  in our  lives 
and wandered in despair, frustration and despondency, it 
would be so sad. All  the people who live  in the world 
are searching for the way. Some people  have found the 
way and live lives  of success and  blessing, but others 
keep wandering in this world of wilderness. Jesus came 
to this world, died,  and rose from  the dead to  become 
the true way for us.

  First, Jesus has  become the way  of forgiveness  and 
righteousness for us by actually dying and rising again. 
Man   is   born   a   slave   to   sin.   Since   he   had 
self-consciousness, he  has been   distressed because of 
feelings of guilt and  condemnation. There is  no one in 
this world who  is not  distressed because  of having a 
guilty conscience.

  In order   to solve   this problem,  people  depend  on 
moral efforts  and a   lot of religions,  but  no one  has 
become righteous. Jesus  was born unblemished  on this 
earth and He observed  the law for 33  years. Since He 
was unblemished, He  could be  a lamb of  sacrifice for 
man.

  In 1  Peter 3:18  we read,  "For Christ  died  for sins 
once for all, the righteous  for the unrighteous, to bring 
you to God. He was put to death in the body but made 
alive by the Spirit."  The righteous for  the unrighteous, 
the Lord experienced  an awful  death on  the cross  by 
shedding His  blood.  Due to   our sin, He   entered the 
prison of death and destroyed sin  and on the third day 
He got  out of  the prison  through resurrection.  If  the 
Lord had not risen  from the dead,  it would have  been 
proven that He didn't pay for our sin since He got into 
prison for it. Yet, He entered the prison of death to pay 
for our   sin and  rose on   the third  day; because   He 
destroyed all sin He  didn't have to stay  in that prison 
any longer. That's  why Jesus  has become  the eternal 
way of  forgiveness and  righteousness. Jesus   was not 
the one who  taught the  way but  He Himself  became 
the way. If we  accept Jesus in  our hearts, we  receive 
the way of forgiveness and righteousness.

  Ephesians 1:7   says, "In   Him we   have redemption 
through   His   blood,   the   forgiveness  of   sins,   in 
accordance with   the riches   of God's   grace." Today 
people   do  not   find  the   way  of   forgiveness  and    
righteousness,  but  wander  with  every  effort  in  the 
forest of religion. However, Jesus is our way. He is the 
way of forgiveness and  righteousness. He who  accepts 
Jesus as his Savior  is the one who  enters the way of 
forgiveness and righteousness and who doesn't  lose the 
way but finds  it. Therefore, Jesus  rose after  defeating 
sin, unrighteousness, filth  and despair  and became  the 
way of forgiveness  and righteousness  for us.  He who 
accepts Jesus doesn't  have to  wander any  longer. He 
never wanders, for Jesus is the  way. Jesus is the very 
way of our forgiveness and righteousness.

 Second, Jesus is the way of heaven and the fullness of 
the Holy Spirit. After Adam fell and  became a slave to 
the devil, man was conceived in  his mother's womb as 
a slave to  the devil and  born and lives  as a slave  to 
the devil,  too. People   live only for   physical lust and 
greed and worldly pleasure with demons without God, in 
the world of  the devil.  They are  overwhelmed by the 
world and the  devil in their  hearts. Just ask  people if 
they think   of God   the Father   and Jesus  even  one 
moment during the day. They never  do. Since they are 
occupied by the devil and the world, they are filled with 
perishable things.

  We read   in 1  John  2:15-16, "If   anyone loves  the 
world,  the  love  of  the  Father  is  not  in  him.  For 
everything in the  world --the  cravings of sinful  man, 
the lust of  his eyes and  the boasting  of what he  has 
and does." Jesus broke into this world, preached heaven, 
fought with   the devil   and the  world  on  the  cross, 
conquered  them   through  death   and  defeated   them 
completely by  rising  from the   dead. He  entered into 
death,  the  final  arms  of  the  devil   and the   world, 
destroyed  it  within  three  days,  disarmed   the devil, 
defeated this world, rose from the dead and became  the 
way to heaven and the Holy Spirit. Jesus  doesn't show 
us the way  but He is  the very way  for you and  me. 
He is the way  of heaven and the  fullness of the  Holy 
Spirit. If  we receive  Jesus in  our hearts,  the way  of 
heaven and  the fullness  of  the Holy  Spirit is   in us. 
Through the way 
we will get into  heaven and experience  the fullness of 
the Holy Spirit. 

  Acts 2:32-33, says, "God has raised this Jesus  to life, 
and we  are all  witnesses of  the fact.  Exalted  to the 
right hand of God, He has received from the Father the 
promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now 
see and hear." Therefore, he who has Jesus has  heaven 
and the Holy Spirit in him. Heaven  and the Holy Spirit 
dwell in you. It has been proven  that you can call God 
"Abba, Father," believe  in Jesus as  the King of  kings, 
walk with the Holy  Spirit, be fed   by the Word,  pray 
and you know that the heavenly host and angels protect 
you. This knowledge comes to you because you believed 
in Christ, and the world and the devil have been driven 
out.

  Third, we have to know that Jesus is the way of joy 
and healing. God  is the source  of life  and Adam who 
was against God  was cut  off from  the source  of life 
and entered  continual corruption.   His spirit was   dead 
and corrupted and his heart was corrupted, got sick and 
his body was sick and he was dying.

  Jeremiah 2:13 states, "My people have  committed two 
sins: They have forsaken me, the spring of living water, 
and have dug  their own  cisterns, broken  cisterns that 
cannot  hold  water."   Today people   live  with   being 
self-centered, their wisdom,  knowledge and intelligence, 
but all  those  things are  broken  cisterns which   can't 
hold water, in  which we  can't find  joy, hope nor  the 
purpose and value  of life.  Life without  joy and  peace 
will be tragic. God is joy but he  who left Him left joy. 
People may   look happy   for a  moment  with  wealth, 
splendor and fame, but they  are just false images. The 
spirits of  people are  filled with   sorrow and affliction. 
Only when they are  in Jesus can  joy well up  in their 
spirits, for God is joy.

  The   Bible  says,   "Joy  is   full   and  pleasure   is 
overflowing before   the Lord."   That's why   in Jesus 
Christ the joy of God can  be overflowing in us. Today 
people   are  filled   with  worry,   concern,  uneasiness, 
anxiety, hatred,  greed and  sorrow. They  are suffering 
from various kinds of physical disease every  day. Jesus 
hung on the cross with all that suffering. His back was 
bent with   our sorrows   on the   cross. He   bore our 
worries,   concerns,  uneasiness,   nervousness,   despair, 
infirmities, sicknesses, affliction and troubles. Jesus bore 
the most  terrible sorrow  and suffering  that man  ever 
had on this  earth and experienced  death on  the cross. 
Jesus bore our affliction and sorrows, died on the cross, 
entered the  tomb,  conquered death   within three days 
and rose from the dead. If He had not conquered  death, 
He wouldn't   have risen  from the   dead. If  He were 
defeated, He  would  have been  captured  in the  tomb. 
Yet, Jesus   rose and   proved that   He destroyed   our 
troubles, infirmities and sicknesses.  Hence, Jesus is not 
the one who shows us the  way of joy and healing  but 
He is the very way of joy and healing. He who believes 
in Jesus   has already   received the   way of  joy  and 
healing. If he seeks and calls Jesus Who is the way, he 
will have overflowing joy and healing.  For Jesus is not 
the one who teaches  the way but He  is the way. The 
way  of   grace and   blessing   of the   Lord  will   be 
overflowing.

  According to 1  Peter 2:24-25,  "He Himself  bore our 
sins in His body  on the tree, so  that we might die  to 
sins and  live  for righteousness;   by His wounds   you 
have  been  healed.  For  you  were   like sheep   going  
astray, but now you have returned to the Shepherd  and 
Overseer of your  souls." Isaiah  12:3 also  reads, "With 
joy you will  draw water  from the wells  of salvation." 
Jesus is  the very   well and way  of  joy, healing  and 
health. When we walk in the way  of Jesus, we will be 
overflowing with joy,  healing and  health. This way  is 
hidden from  the people  of  the world.  Only when  we 
repent of sin, the Holy Spirit will show us the way, and 
we can enter the hidden way which is Jesus.

  Fourth, Jesus is  the way of  prosperity and  blessing. 
This Jesus is not the one who shows us prosperity and 
blessing but He  Himself is  the way of  prosperity and 
blessing. All  the people  of the  world are  seeking the 
way of prosperity and blessing for their lives. By taking 
more degrees,  studying more,  making more  effort and 
having a better background, they are  struggling for the 
way of  prosperity and  blessing.  However, Adam  was 
driven out from Eden and lived in the thorns of poverty 
and the   curse and  all the   people have  lived  among 
thorns. They are wandering to  find their way, smeared 
with blood.

  We read in Jeremiah  17:5-6, "This is  what the Lord 
says: "Cursed   is the   one who   trusts in  man,  who 
depends on flesh for his strength and whose heart turns 
away from  the Lord.  He  will be  like a  bush  in the 
wastelands; he will  not see  prosperity when  it comes. 
He will dwell in the  parched places of the  desert, in a 
salt land   where no  one lives."   Likewise, he  who is 
away from the Lord will be cursed  and in whatever he 
does he  will  be like  a  bush in   the wastelands. But 
Jesus' death gives us freedom from the  curse, affliction 
and poverty. We should know that Christ bore the curse 
and poverty   in His  body  and  life  and through   His 
resurrection. He destroyed the curse and  poverty in the 
tomb and became  the way  of prosperity  and blessing. 
The Bible says, "Christ  redeemed us from the curse of 
the law by becoming  a curse for  us, for it  is written: 
'Cursed  is  everyone  who  is  hung  on   a tree.'   He 
redeemed  us   in order   that  the   blessing  given  to 
Abraham might   come to  the Gentiles   through Christ 
Jesus." "You know the grace  of our Lord Jesus  Christ, 
that though He was rich, yet for your sakes he  became 
poor, so  that you  through His  poverty might   become 
rich." In order for you  to abound in everything  and do 
every good work, the  Lord died on  the cross with the 
curse and poverty  for our sake,  was buried,  destroyed 
them in the tomb and rose from the dead. 

  So now  He  has become   the way  of blessing   and 
prosperity for you. If you  come to Jesus, you  will find 
prosperity and   blessing. Jesus   is the   way. Through 
Christ the way, God makes prosperity flow over us like 
a river and  blessing. So  please come into  the way  of 
Jesus. Only in the way of Jesus  will God's blessing be 
poured upon us so we may be the head, not the tail; at 
the top, never at the bottom; lend  to others but borrow 
from none.

  The Bible  says, "Dear  friend, I  pray that  you may 
enjoy good health  and that all  may go well  with you, 
even as your soul is  getting along well." This blessing 
of God will flow into us through the way, Jesus. 

  Fifth, Jesus is  the way  of eternal  life. Jesus  is not 
the one who teaches the way of life but He is the  way 
of life.  All  the great   religionists in  this world   were 
those who taught the way. Confucius taught the way to 
live   a  good   life.  Sakyamuni   taught  the   way  to 
understand life. Yet,  Jesus has  never taught  the way, 
for He is the very  way, the way of eternal  life. Those 
who fall in the maze  of death won't live  again. People 
will never have life again  after dying. Those who once 
entered the   maze shall  not return.   Even one  of the 
teachers, saints and religionists who taught the way has 
not come  back once  they died.  An atheist  went to  a 
French king and  said, "I  will make  a religion  for the 
new era." Then  the king  answered, "If you  rose from 
the dead, I  would believe  the religion.  If not, I  won't 
believe any tremendous  religion." That's right.  Though 
anyone   preaches  some   religion  and   teaches  some 
philosophy, unless   he dies  and rises   again, he  can't 
prove what he teaches is true.

  Acts 4:12 tells us, "Salvation is found  in no one else, 
for there is no other  name under heaven given  to men 
by which we  must be saved."  Only Jesus  became the 
way of life by rising from  the dead after He destroyed 
death and hell.  Who was  resurrected but  Jesus? Who 
preached the faith of  resurrection but Jesus?  The Lord 
didn't leave   us any  poem nor   treatise. However,  so 
many people   who were   saved through   Christ, have 
become  great   poets,  authors  and   artists  with   the 
inspiration that they received through the Holy Spirit of 
resurrection. Jesus   directly bore  the darkness   in His 
body, defeated it,  rose from  the dead  and became the 
source of eternal life for us.

  Hebrews 2:14-15 states, "Since the children have flesh 
and blood, He too  shared in their humanity  so that by 
His death He might  destroy him who  holds the power 
of death--that  is,  the devil--and   free those  who all 
their lives were held in slavery  by their fear of death." 
We feared  death, became  slaves to  it and  have lived 
with uneasiness and fear. Jesus died in place  of us, cut 
off the rope of death through His resurrection and  gave 
eternal freedom and liberty to  us who struggled due to 
the fear of death. That's why the apostle, Paul, mocked 
and laughed   at death   by boldly   saying, "Where,   O 
death, is your victory? Where, O  death, is your sting?" 
Now we  don't  have to  fear.  Jesus strongly   told us, 
"Trust in God; trust also  in me. In my  Father's house 
are  many rooms; if it  were not so, I would  have told 
you. I am going there  to prepare a place  for you. And 
if I go and  prepare a place  for you, I  will come back 
and take  you to   be with me  that  you also  may  be 
where  I  am."   Jesus told   us  that   death does   not 
disappear but becomes  the process by  which we enter 
the  Father's   house  which   our  Lord   Jesus  Christ 
prepared through His resurrection.

  Therefore, Jesus  made  us know  through  His death 
and resurrection  that  death is  not  a cave   of eternal 
despair but a tunnel to  pass forward to the  other side. 
Through  death,  we'll  go   from this   world  over  to 
heaven. We   will go   toward a   place more   glorious, 
clearer, brighter, hopeful  and more  joyful. That's  why 
no incident will give us greater light and hope  than the 
resurrection of  Jesus Christ.  God makes  the way  and 
Jesus is the  way. God  always makes the  way for  us 
but we must  know that  only Jesus  is that  way. The 
Israelites got to  the Red  Sea and were  frustrated and 
disappointed because  they couldn't   find a way  to  go 
across.  The  army   of the   Egyptian  King,   Pharaoh, 
followed to capture them. There  was no way for them. 
They cried out to God with Moses, so God made a way 
through the Red Sea. We say  the Red Sea was opened 
but that open sea was  Jesus. God opened the  Red Sea 
and the way was Jesus. Jesus says, "I am the way and 
the truth  and  the life.  No  one comes   to the Father 
except through me."

  Today God,   through Jesus'  death  and resurrection, 
makes the way  of life,  victory and  blessing, and  that 
way is Jesus Himself. There will be a river overflowing 
with forgiveness and righteousness  through the way of 
Jesus. Jesus is that way. He is not the one  who makes 
the way but He  is the way.  God fills us  with heaven 
through the way  of Jesus. Through  the way the  Holy 
Spirit overflows.  Jesus is  the very  way. Through  the 
way of  Jesus, heavenly  joy is  being poured  upon us. 
Through the way of Jesus, healing and health overflow. 
We have found the way. We should  believe in our God 
in that  way.  Through the   way of Jesus,   God pours 
prosperity and  blessing  upon us.   We are  those who 
have  found   the way.   We  can   not find   the   way 
anywhere else. For Jesus  is the way of  prosperity and 
blessing. All  people  are looking   for the way   of life. 
Jesus is  the  way of  life.  Through Jesus,  God  pours 
eternal life   on us.  Through  the way   of Jesus,  God 
grants us  resurrection.  Through Jesus,  God  gives us 
heavenly glory abundantly.

  John 14:6 says, "Jesus  answered, 'I am the  way and 
the truth  and  the life.  No  one comes   to the Father 
except through me.' "Jesus is  the direct way for  us to 
go toward God. Jesus clearly  proved through His death 
and resurrection that the Lord is  the way. Death didn't 
interrupt the way of Jesus and neither did the devil, the 
world, sorrow, trouble, disease, the curse, poverty, death, 
despair nor hell. Jesus  came as the way  and overcame 
all those obstacles  and showed that  He is the  winner. 
Through resurrection, Jesus shows  us the way  of true 
life. Therefore, today we should not go  other ways, but 
should come into  the way of  Jesus. We should  accept 
the way, in which we should seek God, pray and cry to 
Him in   faith, then  through  the  way  God will   pour 
forgiveness and  righteousness upon  us abundantly.  He 
will fill us  with the  Holy Spirit,  heaven, joy,  healing, 
prosperity, blessing, eternal life and heavenly glory.

  John 6:40 tells us, "My Father's will is  that everyone 
who looks to  the Son and  believes in  Him shall have 
eternal life, and  I will  raise him  up at  the last  day." 
Likewise, the  Father and  the  Son are  one. In  Jesus' 
resurrection, God works,  and through His  Son we  can 
be embraced  by God.  By rising  from the   tomb 2,000 
years ago,  Jesus  became the   source of eternal   faith, 
hope and  love, and  He became  the purpose,  direction, 
meaning and  value for  our future.  Jesus! Jesus!  Only 
Jesus is   the everlasting,   true treasure   in our  lives. 
Please follow Jesus, the  way. Those who come  to this 
way, Jesus, have  a direct  relationship with the  Father 
through the   way, so   ask Him   for everything.   The 
Father will answer  you and  through the  way in your 
hearts, He  will fill   you with the   fivefold gospel and 
threefold blessings. 

-Prayer-
  Holy  and   glorious  God,   our  Father,   People are 
searching for the way but they are wandering around in 
a wilderness. We thank  you for the way  of Jesus. We 
don't have to  roam around.  Dear Father,  Jesus is the 
way toward   You. Thank   You for   removing all  the 
obstacles of  sin,  disease, the   curse, despair,  and the 
valley of death, through Christ, and that He became the 
way of light.  Today through  this way, please  help us 
enter the grace and blessing of the Father! Please let us 
in Jesus   strongly pray   and cry  out  with  faith and 
receive all the grace and blessing You have given us so 
that we, as Your  people, may help countless  people on 
this earth! We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.
