Sunday, April 18th 1999
Title : The Valley of the Shadow of Death
Scripture Reading : Ps 23:4

  The valley   of the  shadow of   death doesn't  sound 
good. For death means to  experience a dark and lonely 
valley. There   is not  only  physical death   but mental 
death, too. We are afraid of death because it means  the 
end of  our existence.  Both physical  and mental  death 
are painful   and fearful   experiences. However,   before 
blessing us, God  makes us  go through  a big or  little 
death; that is, the valley of the shadow of death.

  The Bible  tells many  stories of   people who passed 
through the valley of the shadow of death. Our ancestor 
of faith, Abraham, was called by God at age 75 and set 
out for   Canaan, where  the valley   of the  shadow of 
death was waiting  for him. With  great expectation, he 
took  his  wife,   nephew, relatives   and  servants  into 
Canaan, but found  only severe famine  waiting for him 
there. The sun  was shining,  the mountains  and fields 
were dried up and there was  no water. All his animals 
died, his relatives and  servants went away  and at last 
he had   no one  but  his  wife  and nephew.   He was 
confronted with   the valley  of  the  shadow  of death. 
Besides, in order to hide his suffering, he went down to 
Egypt,  where   he  was   deprived  of   his  wife   and 
experienced  a  terrible and  lonely life.  That  was the 
experience of the  valley of  the shadow  of death   for 
him. God made Abraham the ancestor of faith.

  The Bible says,  "So from  this one  man, and  he as 
good as  dead, came  descendants as   numerous as the 
stars in the  sky and as  countless as the  sand on  the 
seashore." It says,"...he as good  as dead." It means  the 
man who undergoes the valley of the shadow of death.

  Isaac was in the same situation. He was the son that 
Abraham begot   at 100,  but  at 20,   Isaac had  to  be 
sacrificed as a burnt offering  at  Mt. Moriah by God's 
command. It   was also  the  valley of   the shadow  of 
death. After a three day walk, Abraham arrived  at Mt. 
Moriah. He  built an  altar there,  bound his  son Isaac, 
and laid him on  the altar as a  burnt offering. He took 
out a knife to slay his son. Then the angel of  the Lord 
called out to him from heaven, "Abraham! Abraham! Do 
not do  anything  to your  only  son Isaac."  If  not, he 
might have died. He really passed through the valley of 
the shadow  of death.  As a  result, God  granted Isaac 
His grace,  blessings and  love without  ceasing, all  his 
life.

  Jacob was  in such  terrible  suffering at  the Jabbok 
River. He served  his uncle for 20 years. While he was 
returning to  his hometown  with  his family,  he heard 
that his older brother was coming with his army to  kill 
him. His uncle told him not to spare his life if he would 
come back and his older brother was  coming  with 400 
men to kill him. So  he was trapped. He had  his whole 
family cross the river first and he was left  alone. Then 
the angel of God  rushed to him   and said, "Cross  the 
river and  be with  your  family." But  Jacob answered, 
"No, if  my family  would  die and  all my  possessions 
would be taken, I  must survive." He  wrestled with an 
angel all night.  He didn't  obey and the  angel touched 
his hip  socket so  that his  hip was  wrenched and  he 
became crippled.  He couldn't  flee if  his  older brother 
would come. He  had to  go through  the valley  of the 
shadow of death.  He couldn't  help but  depend on  the 
Lord no matter what situation he may be in. He made a 
resolution and   crossed the  river  of Jabbok   the next 
morning and walked before his  family toward his older 
brother. While his older  brother  was coming with  400 
men to kill  Jacob, he saw  Jacob limping and  had pity 
on him.  He  got off   his horse,  embraced Jacob   with 
weeping, and  he was  reconciled with  him and  helped 
him. After   Jacob passed   through the   valley of   the 
shadow of death, God had grace on him. Take a look at 
Joseph. At 17 he was hated and sold as  a slave by his 
brothers. Then he  was severely  afflicted for  13 years. 
He was terribly mistreated  as a slave  at the house  of 
Potiphar, where he mentally went through  the valley of 
the shadow   of death.   He was  also  put  into  prison 
without any  charge. There  he suffered  mentally more 
than two years. After passing through the valley  of the 
shadow  of  death,   he was   appointed  as  the  prime 
minister of Egypt.
  It was the same  for Moses. At 40  he was hated  by 
Pharaoh because he helped an Israelite, so he ran away. 
Then he wandered for  40 years in Midian  where there 
was   nothing  but   wind,   hot  sun   and   sand.   He 
experienced death,   weeping bitterly  while tending   his 
flock there. The whole  land of Midian  seemed like his 
grave. After  he underwent   such a mental   grave, the 
valley of the shadow of death, at age 80 God called him 
again from  a bush   and granted him  grace.  He went 
over to Egypt with a staff   and delivered the Israelites 
who had been slaves there for 430 years and took them 
into the land of  Canaan, flowing with  milk and honey. 
Likewise, all the great men  of faith experienced mental 
and severe  affliction and  death.  They passed  through 
the valley of the shadow  of death. Why did  God make 
them go  through the  valley of  the shadow  of death? 
Couldn't He  bless them  for nothing?  Why should  we 
face the big or  little valley of  the shadow of  death in 
our lives? 

  First, in order for us  to become servants of God,  He 
needs to  make  us humble  through  the valley  of  the 
shadow of death. Adam and Eve took the fruit from the 
tree of good  and evil at  the garden of  Eden, for they 
didn't want to  be a  servant. There  is only one  Lord, 
God, in the universe. He extremely loved Adam and Eve 
but didn't allow  them to  become the  Lord. Therefore, 
He commanded, "You are  free to eat  from any tree  in 
the garden; but you must  not eat from the  tree of the 
knowledge of good and evil, for when you eat of it you 
will surely die." To eat from the  tree of the knowledge 
of good  and evil  is  to become  the lord   who has to 
decide which is good and evil. Only the Lord can decide 
which is good and evil,  but the servant must  obey his 
Lord without making any  decision. Yet Adam  and Eve 
were tempted by the  devil and ate  the  fruit from the 
tree of the knowledge  of good and  evil to become  the 
Lord. They  should have   served God as  servants  but 
persisted in becoming the Lord.  Therefore, there was a 
fight to become the Lord  between man and God in  the 
universe. Two Lords can't exist. That's why Adam and 
Eve  were   driven  out  and   their  descendants  were 
conceived and born sinners. They were sinners, for they 
pretended to  be the  Lord.  They rebelled  against God 
and disobeyed Him.  They wanted  to judge  both good 
and evil and   lead  their  lives on their  own. Though 
God shows man something good,  he doesn't trust Him, 
and what   He dislikes  man likes.   Man quarrels  with 
God; wrestles and  competes with Him  to be the  Lord. 
God never  admits  such a  man.  That's why  he  was 
driven out  of Eden  and  was suffering  from affliction 
and torment for such a long time.

  Isaiah 1:2-4 states, "Hear, O heavens! Listen, O earth! 
For the Lord has spoken: 'I reared children and brought 
them up,  but they  have rebelled  against me.   The ox 
knows his master, the donkey  his owner's manger, but 
Israel does  not know,  my  people do  not understand.' 
Ah, sinful nation, a people loaded with guilt,  a brood of 
evildoers,  children   given  to  corruption!   They  have 
forsaken the Lord; they  have spurned the Holy  One of 
Israel and turned their backs on Him."
People    have    forsaken    God     and    lead    their 
human-centered lives as a master.

  The Bible says, "My people committed two sins: They 
have forsaken me, the spring  of living water, and have 
dug their own cisterns, broken cisterns that cannot hold 
water." Therefore,  in order  for man  who has  become 
the master to  be a servant,  he has to  go through the 
valley of the  shadow of  death. While  passing through 
that valley, he should take off  his old self and be born 
again as   a servant  of God.   It is  not  done through 
education nor  training but  through death.  Man should 
experience death through  trials. Hence, our  God makes 
the one He will bless and use, undergo  the big or little 
valley of the shadow of death.

  Psalm 123:1-2 says, "I lift up my eyes to you, to you 
whose throne is in heaven.  As the eyes of  slaves look 
to the hand of their master, as the eyes of  a maid look 
to the hand  of her  mistress, so  our eyes  look to  the 
Lord our God, till  He shows us His  mercy." The Lord 
has all the power  and  He decides  which is good and 
evil. What the slave has to do  is to look to his master 
and wait. The slave  must obey his  master but has no 
right to decide. Since all of us were created as servants 
for God,  we should   look to our  Lord  God and  obey 
Him. We   have no  right  to  do what   God does   not 
command. If God commands us  to go "left," we  should 
obey and  if "right",  we should  obey. It's  up to  God. 
What we have to  do is to obey.  For that, we have  to 
go through the valley of the shadow of death.

  Second, God makes us pass through the valley of  the 
shadow of   death so   we will  repent.  When  we  are 
comfortable,   we   do   not   repent.   Since   we   are 
comfortable,  we   just live   with  our   own thoughts. 
However, if we go through the valley of the  shadow of 
death and face  troubles and  affliction, we  think about 
our wrong   doing. when   people enter  suffering,  they 
seriously think  about their  sins and  how  they sinned 
against God   and deeply  repent  of that.   Furthermore, 
they  are   given  the   chance to   confess   their  sins 
according   to  the   instruction   of   the  Holy   Spirit. 
Therefore, it is not always good  to have good days. In 
order for us  to repent,  reflect and be  changed, it  will 
also be good to face trials and suffering.

  Ezekiel 18:30-32 states, "Therefore, O house  of Israel, 
I will   judge you,   each one  according  to  his  ways, 
declares the Sovereign  Lord. Repent!  Turn away  from 
all your offenses;  then sin  will not  be your  downfall. 
Rid yourselves of all  the offenses you have  committed, 
and get a  new heart and  a new  spirit. Why will  you 
die, O house  of Israel?  For I take  no pleasure  in the 
death of  anyone, declares  the  Sovereign Lord.  Repent 
and live!" Here we can see that God wants us to repent 
and turn  away from  death to  life. Likewise,  suffering 
can be a  blessing for us,  for we  can repent and  turn 
back to the  Lord while  passing through  the valley  of 
the shadow of death.

  Third, God  makes us  go through  the valley  of the 
shadow of death  to give  us pure  faith. For when  we 
pass through the valley, we can't   see, hear, nor touch 
anything. It is  absolutely dark  and we  are in despair. 
We can't find any help at that time. All our friends and 
relatives may turn  away and we  will be struggling  in 
the water of death by ourselves  with no one to depend 
on but God. All  of our wisdom, intelligence,  talent and 
knowledge disappears and  so does all  we boast  about. 
We will just be like an  earthworm. Then we will have 
pure faith which will take away our pride, and boasting, 
and we will only  rely upon and  cry out to  the  Lord. 
Likewise, to train us to have this pure faith, God makes 
us go through the valley of the shadow of  death. If we 
have something to  depend on  without passing through 
the valley of  the shadow  of death,  we   will  always 
depend on that. Yet, if we don't have anything, we will 
totally rely upon God.

  James 1:2-4 says, "Consider it pure  joy, my brothers, 
whenever you face  trials of  many kinds,  because you 
know   that   the   testing   of   your   faith   develops 
perseverance. Perseverance must finish its work so  that 
you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything." 
Therefore, through the  valley of  the shadow  of death, 
God gives us complete  faith so that we  may have His 
great grace and blessings. If we do not  have pure faith 
and say that  we trust  God, we  are contaminated,  but 
through the valley of the shadow of death we will have 
pure and fervent faith.

  Fourth, we go  through the  valley of  the shadow of 
death so the  glory of God  can be  revealed. When we 
are in the valley of trials and trouble, the mighty power 
of God is  shown.  The Israelites were at  the Red Sea 
and behind them were the  Egyptian armies. They were 
sandwiched in between with no way out.  That was the 
time when God revealed His  glory. He divided the Red 
Sea and rescued the  Israelites. Likewise, the  calamities 
we face become an  opportunity for the  miracle of God 
to be performed. When we live with comfort and safety, 
it is not necessary for the power of God to be revealed. 
Yet, when we face  trials and cry  out to God,  He will 
deliver us  by His   power and authority  so  His glory 
may be shown to us.

  Since the  Israelites  got out   of Egypt and   suffered 
from a lot of affliction and trouble in the wilderness, the 
great wonders   and miracles  performed there   by God 
were  written   in the   Bible.  The   glory of   God  is 
completely revealed  only through  man's suffering.  We 
have to know that the valley of the shadow of death  is 
an opportunity  for God  to   always reveal  His glory. 
Human despair is the  beginning of God's  miracle  and 
hope. That's why  you should  know in  your suffering 
that it  is time  for God's  glory to  be revealed.  When 
Lazarus was dead, the Lord said, "It  is for God's glory 
so that God's  Son may be  glorified through  it." Since 
Jesus gave life to Lazarus, He was glorified from God.

  Psalm 138:7 reads,  "Though I  walk in  the midst  of 
trouble, you preserve my life; you stretch out your hand 
against the anger of my foes, with your right hand you 
save me." In this  way we can  experience the glory of 
God. The whole Bible is  filled with the glory  that God 
saved man during trouble.

  Fifth, we  go  through the  valley  of the  shadow  of 
death so that we may be made a vessel to hold greater 
grace and blessing. It is  written that God is the  Potter 
and we   are His  clay. God   molds pottery  with clay. 
When we  walk through  the valley   of the shadow  of 
death, God breaks and makes us vessels fit for His use. 
Hence, trials and  hardship are signs that will  bring us 
great changes. Normally  there is no  change, but when 
we face suffering and trouble through  the valley of the 
shadow of death, God  makes us a  new vessel. We  do 
not know how, but  God makes us a  vessel fit for His 
use,  so  we   may hold   greater  blessing  and  grace. 
Therefore, it is a great blessing that we are made new. 
Only when  the  Lord breaks  us,  can He   make us a 
precious vessel. In  fact, the potter  makes pottery after 
breaking clay  until the  clay  becomes soft.   Then he 
molds pottery.

  In the   same way,  the  experience  of death   is the 
process through which God  breaks us to make  us soft 
for the  vessel  He wants.  That's  why we  should  be 
patient during trials. God  also breaks our  stubbornness 
through judgment and gives us abundant grace.

  Hebrews 12: 8-11 tells us, "If  you are not disciplined 
(and  everyone  undergoes   discipline),  then  you  are 
illegitimate children  and not   true sons. Moreover,   we 
have all had human fathers  who disciplined us and  we 
respected them   for it.   How much   more should   we 
submit to the Father of our spirits and live! Our fathers 
disciplined us for a little while as the  thought best; but 
God disciplines us for  our good, that we  may share in 
His holiness. No  discipline seems pleasant  at the time, 
but painful. Later on, however, it produces  a harvest of 
righteousness  and  peace   for those   who  have  been 
trained by it." God makes us new through the valley of 
the shadow of  death and judges  us to  be changed so 
that He may give us greater and more beautiful grace.

  That's why God  makes us  go through  little or  big 
valleys of death  in our lives.  Yet, he who  walks with 
the Lord  confesses, "Even  though I  walk through  the 
valley of the  shadow of death,  I will fear  no evil, for 
He is  with me;  His rod   and His staff,  they comfort 
me." We are not  alone in the  valley of the shadow  of 
death. The Lord  is sure to  be with  us and makes  us 
renewed with His wisdom and might. He is the factory, 
which makes us chang and the  birth place which gives 
us greater hope. Even  the Son of  God, Jesus, revealed 
Himself by rising  through the  tunnel of  death. Unless 
Jesus had gone through death, He wouldn't  have tasted 
the glory  of resurrection.  If He  had not   experienced 
death, He wouldn't  have redeemed  man's sin, expelled 
secularity, the devil,  sorrow, and  disease, nor  defeated 
the  curse,  poverty,  death  and  hell.  Since  the  Lord 
passed  through  death,  He  destroyed,  conquered   and 
overcame all those things to be risen  in glory so today 
He  may   become our   source   of righteousness,   the 
fullness of the Holy Spirit, joy, hope, healing, prosperity, 
blessing, eternal life, resurrection and heaven. Though it 
was such a terrible  suffering for Jesus  to undergo the 
valley of the shadow of  death, it has become  the most 
glorious and greatest  incident which renewed  man and 
his whole  history  and gave   us eternal  hope for   the 
future. You can throw away your  old self in the valley 
of the shadow of death. No matter how  hard we study, 
and try to get  moral discipline, we  won't take off  our 
old selves. But when  we go through  the valley of  the 
shadow of death, our old self will be taken off. We will 
take off our  old selves and  clothe ourselves with  new 
selves and  have the   glorious life of   the resurrection. 
When we are  changed to only  serve God, we  can get 
out  of   the  valley   and  then  we   will  be   blessed 
tremendously. Therefore, today if a little death comes to 
you, you will face a little resurrection; if a  big death, a 
big  resurrection.  That  is,  little   trials  brings   little 
blessings; big trials, big blessings.

  Our  suffering  in  Christ  must  bring  us  as  much 
blessing  as   our trials   or   more in   the   long run. 
Meaningless and  useless affliction  never comes  to us. 
The valley of the shadow of death  will not come to us 
for nothing. God absolutely  has a purpose  and plan so 
He makes   us experience  trials, trouble,   and calamity 
through the  valley of   the shadow of   death. Through 
them, He makes  us brighter, clearer  and newer  people 
so that  we  may become  vessels  to hold  the  greater 
blessings of God.

-Prayer-
  Dear God   who has   great love   and holiness.   Our 
ancestors of great faith all faced  big or little sufferings 
and went  through the  valley of  the shadow  of death 
and were changed.  Our Father!  We also  run into  the 
valley of the shadow of death which is big or little and 
we feel discouraged and frustrated. God is doing that to 
break, change and make  us new vessels  and to fill us 
with His  glory and  blessings.  Therefore, dear  Father, 
when we undergo many types of valleys of the  shadow 
of death,   help us  not  be depressed.   Let us  not  be 
disappointed nor frustrated,  but go  forward looking  up 
to hope with faith in God and praising Him. Please, help 
us know that he who trusts, perseveres and praises will 
never fail  to  face the  glorious  morning. We  pray  in 
Jesus' name. Amen.
