Sunday, August 29th 1999
Title : What Is Truth?
Scripture Reading : Jn 18:37-38

  Jesus was   arrested and  He stood   at the  court of 
Pilate. As a governor  over the Jews, Pilate  had strong 
authority and power. He asked Jesus, "Are you the king 
of the Jews?" 
Jesus said, "Yes, I was born king and I came to  testify 
to the truth.  Everyone on  the side  of truth  listens to 
me." In a surprising voice, Pilate asked  Jesus, "What is 
truth?" It is a grave question.  Jesus said that He came 
to testify  to the  truth. Yet,  Pilate didn't  know at  all 
what He said. 
  Today, people don't  know what  truth is. Unless  we 
know the truth, we have  no hope. Years ago, when  an 
American earth satellite arrived at  the moon, the whole 
world was excited.  Then a university  student came to 
me and said, "Now you'd better remove the superstition 
of Christianity and live honestly  by working." For they 
believed that man thoroughly conquered the universe not 
by the   superstition of  religion but   with science  and 
reason. 
  At that time, I answered, "A taxi driver dying of fatal 
disease  was  running  at  full   speed. He   thought to 
himself, 'If I speed it up, I will survive.' Yet, the speed 
didn't  matter,  because  the  man  was  sick   with an 
incurable illness. Then what good was it for 
the man  to  speed up?"   Man may  travel around   the 
universe and   fly at  the  speed of   light. However,  it 
doesn't matter, because  the man who  develops science 
and civilization  is  a hopeless  being  and is   taken by 
disease which leads to death. 
Man  has  a  fatal   disease of   sin  and  struggles  in 
nothingness and   meaninglessness. He   has fallen  into 
despair of death and nihilism. Man doesn't  know where 
he came, why  he lives and  where he is  going. Before 
he recognizes himself  as a lost  child and is  saved, all 
the developments  such as  politics, economy,  education, 
culture and science are just like  a patient's clothes. No 
matter how beautiful the patient's clothes may be, if he 
died, it would be of no use.  That's why Jesus came to 
testify to the truth of salvation.    As  Pilate doubtfully 
asked Jesus what  truth is, so  today many people  hear 
the gospel of Christ and laugh asking,  "What is truth?" 
Yet, unless man realizes the  truth, both individuals and 
groups will be in despair without hope. 

  First, we  have to  know  the truth,  "Who is   man?" 
Jesus came to teach  us who we are.  According to the 
Bible, man was made in  the image and the  likeness of 
God. Since the  Scripture says, "God  is Spirit, and  His 
worshipers must worship in spirit and in truth," we live 
in spirit and flesh. We will  take off the flesh when we 
get old.   Yet the  spirit  made in   the image  and  the 
likeness of  God will never  disappear. It'll live forever.   
  Man  created as  a child  of God  disobeyed Him  and 
was driven out of Eden, so his spirit  was dead and his 
life fell to the slavery to the devil. Therefore, fallen man 
due to the devil's falsehood was changed to the present 
corrupt man.
  Psalm  14:1-3  says,  "The  fool  says  in  his  heart, 
'There is  no God.'  They are  corrupt, their  deeds are 
vile; there is  no one  who does  good. The  Lord looks 
down from heaven on  the sons of men  to see if  there 
are any who  understand, any who  seek God. All  have 
turned aside, they  have together become  corrupt; there 
is no one  who does  good, not even  one." Due  to sin, 
man's spirit is  dead, his  heart is completely  corrupted 
by jealousy, indignation and envy, his flesh is  sick, and 
his life is corrupted. He is the slave to anxiety, concern, 
uneasiness, nervousness,  despair, sorrow   and diseases. 
He is doomed to live in hatred, wars, poverty, the curse 
and afflictions and finally  to die and  perish. Therefore, 
we have to realize that  man is to live in  despair. This 
is the real truth of  man. No matter how  much man is 
educated  and  he  develops  science,  he  doesn't   save 
himself.  Man  is  sick   with disease   which leads   to 
despair.
  Psalm 89:46-48 reads,  "How long, O  Lord? Will you 
hide yourself forever?  How long will  your wrath  burn 
like fire? Remember how  fleeting is my  life. For what 
futility you have  created all  men! What  man can  live 
and not see  death, or save  himself from the  power of 
the grave?" Likewise, man is a desperate being and just 
lives one day at a time in disease which leads to death. 
This is the substance of man's existence and  the truth. 
If we don't realize this truth, we will not find ourselves. 
Only when we know what mire we are in, can  we find 
the way  to get  out. Though  man is  in the   mire, he 
doesn't know that situation and it is his despair.
  The Lord  says, "I  came to  testify to  the truth."  It 
means that He came to  let us know the  fact that man 
was made in the image and the likeness of  God but by 
his fall he is  in the most  miserable mire of  corruption 
and despair.

  Second, when the Lord said, "I came to testify  to the 
truth," He meant that He came to testify to the truth of 
salvation in  Jesus  Christ. The  salvation  of God   was 
revealed on  this  earth through   Jesus Christ  and the 
Lord came to testify to this fact.
  We read in Romans 3:23-25, "For all have sinned and 
fall short of  the glory of  God, and  are justified freely 
by His   grace through  the  redemption that   came by 
Christ  Jesus.  God  presented  Him  as  a  sacrifice  of 
atonement, through faith  in His  blood." Jesus  came to 
testify to the  truth that,  to save  us who  were sinful, 
ungodly and filthy and  lived in despair and  death, God 
sent His Son, Jesus  Christ, Who bore  our sins on  the 
cross  in our place.
  In John 14:6 Jesus says,  "I'm the way and  the truth 
and the life. No one comes to the Father except through 
me." Through Jesus Christ, God  shines the light in the 
dark night and  became a bright  way to us  who were 
lost and  didn't know  where we  came, why  we lived 
and where we were  going. Hence, to  the world where 
there was no God, 
Jesus came and  showed through His  life the fact  that 
God created the universe and wanted to save us.
  In Mark  1:15  He says,   "The time  has come.   The 
kingdom of God  is near.  Repent and  believe the good 
news!" Since the  kingdom of  God came  to this  earth 
through Jesus, the  lost people are  found and  they can 
return to heaven. This truth Jesus came to testify to. 
  In Luke 17:21  the Lord  also says, "The  kingdom of 
God is within you." Likewise, the Word, "Jesus came to 
testify to the truth," means, to us who wandered  in the 
pitch- dark night, He came as the light  and showed us 
our past, present and future so that we may not be lost 
nor wander but be found and have life through Him. 
  Being crucified in our place, Jesus destroyed our sins, 
secularity,  the  devil,  sorrows,  sicknesses,  the  curse, 
poverty and  death. He  defeated the  devil, who  steals, 
kills and destroys us, and his bondage on the cross. He 
bestowed upon us His resurrection and triumph.
  Colossians 2:15  says,  "Having disarmed  the  powers 
and authorities,  He made   a public spectacle  of  them, 
triumphing over them  by the cross."  On the cross  the 
Lord fought the powers and authorities of the devil who 
caught us and defeated them.  He gave us freedom  and 
liberty. 
  Romans 4:25 says,  "He was  delivered over  to death 
for our sins and was raised to life for our justification." 
By dying   for us  the  Lord destroyed   death, and  by 
rising, He  delivered all  of us.  This is  the everlasting 
truth of the  universe. Unless  we know  this truth,  we 
will be lost. Jesus came to  testify to the truth that  we 
will have forgiveness, salvation  and life only  in Christ. 
When Jesus said, "I came to testify to the truth," Pilate 
laughed asking, "What is truth?"
  Today people may also laugh saying, "What is truth?" 
However,   Jesus,  who   is  the   truth,   becomes  our 
salvation, our way  and our  life. Only  in Jesus  is the 
truth, but away from Him, everything is false. What are 
wealth, fame and pride?  They are just  like the clothes 
that we are  wearing while  living. Once we  died, they 
would be of no use.         Today, people are  corrupt 
but they  can survive  in Jesus.  We should  know that 
Jesus 
came to testify to this true fact. This is the very truth.

  Third, Jesus came to testify to  the fact that in Jesus 
our old selves are dead and we are made new. 
  In 2 Corinthians 5:17 we read, "If anyone is  in christ, 
he is a  new creation;  the old has  gone, and  the new 
has come!" Jesus  came in order  for us  to continue to 
emphasize and insist in this world that we have become 
new. What truth does Jesus tell us? He came to tell  us 
that sinners disappear in Jesus Christ and they are born 
righteous. 
  Ephesians 4:24 states, "--and to put  on the new self, 
created  to  be   like God   in  true  righteousness   and 
holiness." We   have become   new in   Jesus. Our   old 
selves are gone and we have  become righteous as new 
selves by rising  with Jesus.  All our  sins are  washed 
away and  we are   born righteous again   that we can 
stand before God without shame.
  The Lord also came to show us the  fact that we are 
born  as  heavenly  people  in  whom  the  Holy   Spirit 
dwells.
  In 1 Corinthians 3:16 we  read, "Don't you know that 
you yourselves are God's  temple and that  God's Spirit 
lives   in   you?"  What   is   the   difference   between 
unbelievers and  believers?  Evil spirits   overwhelm the 
hearts of unbelievers and cause them to be confused  so 
that they may be ignorant of  God and Jesus. They are 
possessed by the devil who makes them not believe the 
truth but be  entangled in  falsehood so  that they  may 
live to the worldly  pleasure, lust and  the pride of  this 
life, and perish at last.
  Yet,  the   devil  and  secularity   are  expelled   from 
believers and  the Holy   Spirit and heaven  have  come 
into their hearts so they  become heavenly people. They 
live to the truth. Therefore,  when they hear that  truth, 
they recognize   it and  their hearts   are changed.  The 
Lord came to  testify to  the fact that  we are  born as 
heavenly people whom the Holy Spirit indwells.
  He also came to tell us that we  are healed. We were 
dead spiritually but we  are alive in  Jesus. Our corrupt 
hearts   are    changed   by   Christ   and    we   have 
righteousness,  the  truth  and  holiness.   We are   also 
healed from physical sicknesses and have new  life. The 
Lord came to let us know this whole salvation. He  also 
came to tell us  that we are delivered  from the swamp 
of the curse and receive Abraham's blessings.
  Galatians 3:13-14 states, "Christ redeemed us from the 
curse of the law by  becoming a curse for  us, for it is 
written: 'Cursed is  everyone who  is hung  on a  tree.' 
He redeemed  us  in order  that  the blessing  given  to 
Abraham might   come to  the Gentiles   through Christ 
Jesus, so that by faith we might receive the promise  of 
the Spirit." Hence, what the Lord came to testify to the 
truth, means we  were cursed after  Adam and lived  in 
thorns and thistles  but now they  are removed and  we 
live in the blessings of Abraham. Jesus  came to tell us 
that we  are born  again with   eternal life, resurrection 
and heavenly glory. 
  Colossians 1:12-13 says, "giving thanks to the Father, 
who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the 
saints in the kingdom  of light. For  He has rescued us 
from the dominion of darkness and  brought us into the 
kingdom of the Son He loves." 
  Therefore,  we  are  rescued  from  the   dominion of 
darkness and  now we   live in the  kingdom  of Jesus. 
Jesus is in us and we in  Him, so we are God's people 
living in Jesus.
  John 11:25-26  states, "Jesus  said to  her, 'I  am the 
resurrection and the  life, He  who believes  in me  will 
live,  even  though  he  dies;  and   whoever lives   and 
believes in  me will  never  die,'" Though  our flesh  is 
dead, we will live forever, for we have eternal life. This 
is the truth that man  is born again. The  old has gone 
and the new has come. Only when we know  this truth, 
can we  overcome the  devil's  continual attack  in this 
ungodly world. Though we stumbled at sin, we can  get 
up recalling  that we  are forgiven.  Though our  hearts 
are confused, we can be  restored by the truth  that we 
are the people  of heaven and  the Holy Spirit  in Jesus 
Christ. When we  suffer from sicknesses  in this world, 
we can rise with the truth that we are  healed in Jesus. 
Although    we   are    in   despair    and   frustration, 
remembering that we  received Abraham's  blessings in 
Christ we can  be encouraged.  Though we  face death, 
since we received  eternal life, resurrection  and heaven, 
we can overcome the fear of death. 
  As long as we live  on this earth, there is  no perfect 
one. We keep  facing sin  and falling.  But if  we know 
the truth, we can rise  up and come back to  that truth. 
Therefore, if we  know our  identity in Christ  for sure, 
we can get up  after stumbling, get  out of the  swamp, 
and be   encouraged and  strengthened from   frustration 
and discouragement. No one is perfect in this world, but 
if we know the  truth, no matter what  trouble we may 
have, we can turn back to the truth.

  Fourth, the truth to which the Lord came to testify is 
that of the  world to  come. Today,  people don't  know 
what will happen to them tomorrow.  In Korea, we saw 
the earthquake that  broke out  in Turkey,  only on  the 
newspaper, the   radio or   on TV,   but the   people in 
Europe consider that very seriously. 
They were  greatly  shocked. In  just  a moment,  huge 
cities became  ashes and   tens of thousands   of people 
were crushed   and they  died.  That accident   is more 
awful than   any other   disaster and   war. People  are 
perplexed. Yet, the Bible prophesied that there would be 
famines and  earthquakes in  various places  in the  last 
days. Since we  know that this  is the sign  in the last 
days, we are not afraid. But those who  don't know the 
future fear   and are  nervous, wondering   if the  earth 
would be safe or if something similar may take place to 
them. However, we know  the world to come.  We pass 
by this  world  like strangers  and  wonderers. We   are 
travelers so we don't have eternal places on this earth. 
  Travelers don't put their hearts anywhere.  Hence, we 
are not caught by this earth. We don't put any hope on 
this earth, nor  do we  cling to  that. We  just pass by 
like strangers and  wanderers. Why?  Because the Lord 
will come soon to take us.
  1  Thessalonians  4:16-17  says,  "The  Lord  Himself 
come down  from heaven,  with a  loud command,  with 
the voice of the archangel and  with the trumpet call of 
God, and the  dead in Christ  will rise first.  After that, 
we who are  still alive  and are left  will be  caught up 
together with them  in the clouds  to meet  the Lord in 
the air. And so we will  be with the Lord forever."  We 
know that Jesus is in us now and He will call us when 
He comes   again in  the air.   When He  calls us,   our 
physical bodies  will turn  to  spiritual bodies;  filthy to 
glorious; perishable   to imperishable,   and we  will  be 
caught up in the air 
where for 7  years we  will receive a  reward with  the 
Lord and have a  wedding feast, and  we will live with 
Him forever.
  While living   on this   earth, we   are always  alone. 
When we  were born  of our  mothers, we  were alone. 
Though we have parents, brothers,  sisters, children and 
friends in this world, they are out of our bodies and we 
live alone inside our bodies. No one is not alone  in this 
world. All the people lead  lonely lives. No one  will die 
for us in  this world. We  are all  solitary travelers but 
there is One Who can  enter us and dwell in  us. He is 
Jesus of Nazareth!  Our wives,  husbands, children,  and 
close friends can't  come into us  nor bear our  burdens 
with us together.
  Yet, Jesus can enter us and bear our burdens with us 
and share   our sorrows   and joys   and live   with us 
forever. When death comes to us and  we have to walk 
in the  dark valley,  who will  be with  us? Our  loving 
parents can't   be with  us, nor   can our  spouses and 
children. We  have to  walk alone   to death. When  we 
take our  last breath  in the  dark and  lonely valley  of 
death, only   Jesus will  be with   us. Then  Jesus  will 
stretch  out  His  hands  and   say, "My   beloved son, 
daughter! You   come to   this eternal   place from   the 
world." When we look at His hands, the valley of death 
will turn  to the  bright light.  However, if  you walked 
alone in  the valley  of death   without Jesus, you'd  be 
most lonely, miserable, fearful and desperate.
  Therefore, we have a certain guarantee  for the world 
to come. If we die  before Jesus' coming, He will  come 
and raise us so we may participate in the wedding feast 
in the air.  After the feast,  the Lord will  come to this 
earth, throw all the anti-Christs and  false prophets into 
the  hell  of  eternal  fire,   confine the   devil and   his 
followers in the Abyss and destroy all the people sealed 
as anti-Christs. Then  He will establish  His millennium 
kingdom, where there will  be no death,  tears, pain nor 
despair  and  we  will   reign with   Christ.  When  the 
thousand years are over, the devil and his followers will 
be released from the prison  and will go out  to deceive 
people.  The  people  will  be  divided  into  two:  some 
against Christ and others  for Christ. Then  fire will be 
poured  down   from heaven   and  will   destroy those 
against Christ, and  the devil and  his followers will  be 
thrown into the hell of eternal fire.
  We, the survivors,  will live  with Christ  forever and 
ever. In the eternal realm of the new kingdom and  new 
heaven God will  make, we  will live  forever. Likewise, 
we clearly  know the  truth concerning  the future.  We 
cherish hope for the future. That's  why we never fear. 
Jesus came to  testify to this  sort of  life. When Jesus 
stood before Pilate  and said, "I  came to  testify to the 
truth," he didn't  understand it at  all. He  didn't try to 
figure it out, so he crucified Jesus.
  Today, although   many people   study from   primary 
schools   through  graduate   schools,  they   just  learn 
perishable things  but not  the truth.  That's  why they 
don't know where  they came,  what they  live for  and 
where they are going.  They are destined  to wander in 
the darkness and enter  into the eternal  fall. Pilate was 
interested  only  in  the  political  authorities  of  Rome. 
That's why when Jesus said that He came to testify to 
the truth, he retorted laughing  at Him, "What is  truth? 
You are  ridiculous! You'd  better  have political  power 
and earn money so you can enjoy all pleasures. What is 
truth?" Yet, today  after two  thousand years  went by, 
Rome  and  Pilate  are  all  gone  and  Pilate  must  be 
suffering in the  hell now. Meanwhile,  the truth is  still 
alive and shining  brightly.       After today,  all the 
world and its  belongings will pass  away. Our  national 
authority, wealth, splendor, fame and pleasure will be in 
vain. They are like  a mist and foam  that appear for a 
little  while   and then   vanish.  They   will not   exist 
permanently.   They   will   be   today   and  disappear 
tomorrow. Yet, the  truth that we  trusted and accepted 
will be shining with us forever and ever. 
  Therefore, when   they ask  you what   truth is,  you 
must boldly   answer that  the  truth  is in   Jesus and 
through Christ we  can certainly  see our  past, present 
and future,  so we  don't wander  in  the darkness.  No 
matter how strongly worldly sin  and pleasure tempt us 
and how  severely material   problems afflict us,   if we 
know the truth,  we can turn  to it in  a hurry and  we 
will walk toward eternal life, holding Christ's hand. The 
Lord said,  "What  good is  it  for a  man  to gain  the 
whole world, and yet lose or forfeit his very self? What 
will he exchange his life for?" All our ancestors lived in 
this world and  disappeared like the  wind and  we also 
live after them  and are  walking toward  tombs. If  we 
keep leading   our lives  in  confusion  unaware  of the 
truth, eternal hell will  be waiting for  us. But we, who 
know the truth, in Christ  will rise and overcome  every 
trial and   falsehood, so  we  will walk   toward radiant 
glory and light. 

-Prayer-
Our Father,   God, Who  has  great love   and holiness! 
Pilate   was  entangled   in   authority,  secularity   and 
entertainment, so he ridiculed Jesus who came to testify 
to eternal   truth, saying,  "What is   truth?" Yet,  2,000 
years has  passed since  he died  and entered  into hell, 
but thank  You for   Jesus, who testified   to the truth, 
rose, became  the King  over kings  and the  Lord over 
lords and reigns over  everything. Father, all the  people 
who listen to the  Word today received the  truth. They 
are saved  in Jesus.   They realized that  in  Adam our 
souls were dead miserably, our hearts were corrupt, our 
bodies were  sick and  our lives  were cursed,   and we 
were in despair, but only through the blood of Jesus on 
the cross  we can  be forgiven  and saved  so that   we 
may enjoy good  health and that  all may go  well with 
us, even as our souls are getting  along well. They will 
rise  at   Christ's coming   and  enter   His millennium 
kingdom. After that, they will also live forever with the 
Lord in the eternal realm of the  new kingdom and new 
heaven. They are sure of this  truth. We thank You for 
the truth showing us where we came, why we live, and 
where we are going. We don't wander in darkness.  We 
are not like those  who are ensnared  by the world and 
who  enjoy  entertainment  and  finally  perish.   In our 
hearts Jesus, the truth,  dwells and we will  look to the 
truth with Jesus and  live in bright  light and enter the 
eternal heaven. We  thank You  for all  those things.  If 
any of us  didn't receive Jesus,  the truth, yet,  help us 
repent of our sins and accept Jesus in order to walk out 
from the darkness to the bright light. We pray in Jesus' 
name. Amen.

 

