Sunday, January 17th 1999
Title : The Sinners That Jesus Met
Scriptures Reading : Jn 3:16-18

  All the   descendants of  Adam  are sinners.   All the 
people that  Jesus met  were  sinners. However,  among 
them,  there   were  some   sinners  whom  Jesus   met 
personally. When we  see how  Jesus treated  them, we 
will have   good lessons   about how  to  treat  sinners.        
 
  First, a  sinner that  the Lord  met personally  was a 
woman. He  met  at the   house of  Simon, one  of  the 
Pharisees. The Bible says  that she was a  sinner. That 
story is written in Luke 7:36-50. When Jesus was doing 
His ministry at  Capernaum in  Galilee, He  was invited 
by one of the Pharisees, so He went into the Pharisee's 
house. Then  a woman  stood behind   Him at His  feet 
weeping. In  an  instant, His   feet were  wet with   her 
tears. 
  Looking at Jesus, she confessed  a lot of sins. Deeply 
impressed, she wiped His feet with  her hair as a token 
of honor. It is shameful  for a Jewish woman  to loosen 
her hair. Even now, hair  is very precious to  a woman. 
The Jewish   woman wiped  with her   hair Jesus'  feet 
dirty with dust and wet with tears. She kept on kissing 
His feet. It  was a very  obedient and respectful  action. 
She  poured  on  His  feet   the perfume   she brought. 
Perfume was   to be  poured  on  hair. Women   usually 
served their guests with water so they could wash their 
feet and then used perfume  to  put on their hair.  That 
precious perfume  she didn't  pour on  her  hair but  on 
Jesus' feet! 
  Simon, a Pharisee,  was embarrassed  and upset  with 
her. He thought to himself, "If Jesus  were a prophet or 
the Son of God, He would be aware of her terrible  sins 
and refuse her  to be with  Him. But He  allows her to 
wipe, kiss, and pour perfume  on His feet. He must  not 
be a prophet nor the Son  of God, because He does  not 
recognize a sinner." 
  Then Jesus  said,  "Simon, I  have  something to   tell 
you."  He  said, "Tell  me, Teacher."  Then Jesus  said, 
"Two men owed money  to a certain  moneylender. One 
owed him   five hundred   denarii, and  the  other  fifty. 
Neither of  them had  money  to pay  him back,  so  he 
canceled the  debts of  both.  Now which  of them  will 
thank him  more?"  Simon replied,  "I  suppose the   one 
who had  the bigger  debt  canceled." Jesus  said, "You 
have judged correctly. You  did not give  me any water 
for my feet.  You did not  treat me very  well, but this 
woman wet  my feet  and wiped  them with  her tears. 
You did not  hug and give  me a  kiss when I  entered, 
but she kissed  my feet. You  did not put  cheap oil on 
my head, but she has poured expensive  perfume on my 
feet. Therefore, her many sins have been forgiven." 
  In Luke 7:48-50, "Then Jesus  said to her, 'Your sins 
are forgiven. Your faith has saved you; go in peace." At 
this, Simon, the  Pharisee, was shocked,  for he realized 
Jesus  had  known  everything.  There  is  a  functional 
relationship between  forgiveness  and love:  he  who is 
loved a little loves a little, and loved much loves much. 
  Today the more we receive grace and realize that  we 
are sinners, the  more we feel  thankful to God  for His 
forgiveness. As  a  result, we   love Jesus  more. Since 
some are born  Christians in  the households of  pastors 
or elders, they  have been raised  by religious rites  and 
may say,  "I don't  have any  sin. I  don't think  I'm a 
sinner." Because they do not feel enough grace and love 
of forgiveness,  they  may have   love formally.  Yet, it 
sometimes happens that  someone, who committed  a lot 
of terrible sins and turns to the Lord,  acknowledges his 
sins and heartily thanks and worships God, weeping  for 
His great love  and forgiveness shown  by the blood  of 
Jesus on the cross. However,  the more we grow  up in 
our faith, the more we will feel our sins and the love of 
Jesus Christ. Therefore,  the more our  faith grows,  the 
more  we   will  recognize   our  sins.  The   more  we 
recognize   our   sins,   the   more   we'll   realize  the 
forgiveness of the Lord  and love Him. That's  why the 
Lord said that between two men  who owed 500 denarii 
and 50, the one  who had the bigger  debt canceled will 
love Him more. 
  Likewise, there  is  a functional   relationship between 
forgiveness and love. He who is forgiven a little loves a 
little and  forgiven much  loves much.  As a  matter  of 
fact, we are  not forgiven a  little because we  sinned a 
little. We are all big sinners. Since we are born sinners, 
there is  no one  who has  never sinned  in this  world. 
There's no   difference between   big sins   or little.   It 
depends on how much  we recognize our sin.  We'll see 
the depth, height and width  of forgiveness according to 
our recognition  of sins.  If the  Holy Spirit  comes and 
convicts, even   those who  think  they  are  not sinful, 
repent of their  sins acknowledging them,  weep, receive 
forgiveness and then show great love to the Lord. 
  The woman   was a   sinner publicly  known  in  her 
village. She repented  of her  sins with  weeping before 
Jesus and washed His feet and poured perfume on them, 
for she  felt so   thankful to Him.  She  believed Jesus' 
forgiveness and was so impressed  that she reacted like 
that in return.       Today, the  measure of  our love 
toward Jesus makes  us aware  of that  because of  our 
faith in forgiveness. That is, he who thinks that he was 
forgiven a little will love a little and forgiven much will 
love much. Besides that,  the more he  loves Christ, the 
more he will obey Him.  The woman devoted herself  to 
washing  Jesus'  feet  and  served  Him  obediently  by 
kissing  them.  She  received  the  Lord  by   sacrificing 
herself. Therefore, we  should be humble  and recognize 
forgiveness so we can love the Lord more. Hence, those 
who think they are  forgiven much will  love much and 
forgiven a   little will  love  a  little. Although   we are 
forgiven equally, we may feel a lot for that or a little. 
  Second, the sinner  that Jesus  met was a  woman at 
the well in a town called Sychar.  We read her story in 
John 4:1-30.  Leaving Judea  for Galilee,  the Lord  took 
the quickest  way crossing  the  center of  Samaria. He 
walked so fast that  His disciples had  trouble following 
Him. At noon He  sat at the  well in Sychar  located in 
Samaria. The well was about 32 m. deep. The  Lord sat 
at the well and was  waiting for someone. Who do  you 
guess He was waiting for? In the heat of the  day, who 
showed  up?  They  usually   drew water   either early 
morning  or  afternoon,  but  not  around   noon. Jesus' 
disciples had gone into town to buy food. 
  By the way, a woman came to draw water during the 
noon day, in order to  avoid the people who  showed up 
at the well in the morning or in the  afternoon. She had 
a reason   for that.   She didn't   want to  talk  to  her 
neighbors so   she came  to  draw  water around   noon 
when they would  not show  up. To  see her,  the Lord 
hurried to Samaria. 
  This woman didn't  look around and  stepped straight 
down the stairs  to the well.  Then Jesus spoke  to her, 
"Will you  give me  a  drink?" She  was surprised   and 
said, "You  are a  Jew and  the Jews  do not  associate 
with Samaritans. How can you ask a Samaritan  woman 
for a drink?" Jesus answered her, "If you knew the  gift 
of God and  who it  is that asks  you for  a drink, you 
would have asked  Him and He  would have given  you 
living water."  The woman said, "Sir, you have  nothing 
to draw with and the  well is deep. Where can  you get 
this living   water? Are   you greater   than our  father 
Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from  it himself, 
as did also  his sons and  his flocks and  herds?" Jesus 
answered point-blank, "Everyone who drinks  this water 
will be thirsty  again, but  whoever drinks  the water  I 
give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water  I give him 
will become  in him  a spring   of water welling  up to 
eternal life."  The woman  was moved. For  though she 
drank the water at  the well, she  became thirsty again. 
That   means  that   although   people  pursue   worldly 
pleasure   for   high   position,   fame,   authority    and 
enjoyment, they are not satisfied  with those things, but 
they keep getting thirsty. The more they struggle to fill 
themselves  with  worldly  hings,  the  more  they   will 
thirst. However,  the  water the  Lord  gives them   will 
become  in  them  springs  of  water  welling  up  with 
eternal life   and make  them satisfied.   With that,  she 
could understand. The  water she drank  made her stay 
thirsty, but  she heard  that the  water the  Lord would 
give her would become in her a spring of water welling 
up with eternal life. 
  Then she said to  the Lord, "Sir,  give me this  water 
so that I  won't get  thirsty and  have to  keep coming 
here to draw water." In fact,  that was the living water 
of eternal life. Jesus led  a conversation that way so  as 
to have her repent.  He was aware of  her terrible sins. 
She was divorced from her first husband, abandoned the 
second one,   left the   third, betrayed  the  fourth,  said 
goodbye to the fifth,  and now she was  living with the 
sixth man without a wedding. She was so energetic, for 
she exchanged her husbands so often. 
  To make her repent, the Lord used a  marvelous way. 
We might have said to her, "You are a wicked sinner, a 
prostitute, a  doubting woman!  Repent, or  you will  be 
burned in the fire of hell."  But the Lord didn't do that. 
For everyone has  pride and  always wants  to keep  it. 
When the Lord spoke, He didn't touch her pride. He led 
her to open her heart  instead of forcing her. We  easily 
disregard others'   pride so   we hurt   them deeply.   If 
people's pride is  hurt, they  don't feel like  a man  any 
longer. They may act like beasts. 
  These days many people  are divorced, because  while 
arguing they hurt the pride of their  husbands or wives. 
They began to hate each other and become enemies. 
  When Jesus made  sinners repent,  He respected their 
pride. He didn't hurt  their pride, but He  let them open 
their hearts and repent. Though the Lord knew that  the 
woman had had  five husbands  and was  living with a 
sixth man, He induced her to confess her sin. When the 
Lord said, "I will  give you living water,  so bring your 
husband,"  she  was   shocked and   said,  "I   have no 
husband." Then Jesus said, "You're right when you say 
you have no  husband. The fact  is, you  have had five 
husbands, and   the man  you  now  have  is not   your 
husband. What you have just said is  true."  That word 
touched her heart  so strongly!  She thought  to herself, 
"Wow, He is a real prophet. He already knows all about 
my life." Jesus didn't  hurt her pride at  all. Jesus gave 
her a compliment  for her  confession saying,  "You are 
right when you say you  have no husband. In fact,  you 
have had five husbands and  the man you now  have is 
not your husband." 
  The woman   said, "Sir,  I can   see that  you  are a 
prophet." Then  she began   to speak about   a religious 
issue, "Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you 
Jews claim that the place where we must worship is  in 
Jerusalem." Jesus declared, "Believe  me, woman, a time 
is coming when you will worship  the Father neither on 
this mountain nor in Jerusalem. You Samaritans worship 
what you do not know; we worship what we know,  for 
salvation is from  the Jews. Yet  a time is  coming and 
has now come  when the  true worshipers will  worship 
the Father in spirit  and truth, for they  are the kind of 
worshipers the   Father seeks.  God  is spirit,   and His 
worshipers must worship  in spirit and  in truth."  Jesus 
said, "You   will worship   the Father   neither on   this 
mountain nor in Jerusalem.  The place does  not matter. 
For God is present anywhere. Since He seeks those who 
worship Him  in  spirit and  truth,  you can  meet  Him 
wherever you worship  in spirit and  truth." Jesus  gave 
her such an excellent answer. 
  The woman said, "I  know that Messiah called  Christ 
is coming. When He  comes, He will explain  everything 
to us."  Then Jesus declared,  "I who speak to  you am 
He." The woman  was deeply moved.  She opened wide 
her heart through Jesus'  leading. At once she  accepted 
Jesus and left  her water  jar in  a hurry for  the town 
and said to Samaritans, "Come, see a man who told  me 
everything I ever did. Could this  be the Christ?  He is 
waiting at the well in  Sychar."  They came out of  the 
town, met   Jesus Christ,   listened to   the gospel   and 
Samaria was changed tremendously  through the gospel. 
Now let us  take a look  at Jesus' ministry.  He treated 
just a single sinner very  carefully. He didn't hurt  their 
pride. It is  pride that man  wishes to keep  to the end. 
He who loses his pride  might become like a  beast and 
change to a wicked  person. Therefore, we have  to pay 
attention to Jesus'  inducing a sinner  to repent without 
hurting her  pride.  We can  see  Jesus respect  even  a 
sinner and make efforts not to hurt her pride. 
  Nowadays, some  evangelists  use bad   words in the 
pulpit. They speak ill of others. It is not the way Christ 
wants. Jesus is the Lord of great love, who regarded as 
precious a sinful  prostitute and  induced her  to repent. 
The Lord   considers each   of you   so valuable:   your 
character and your pride. May you realize that the Lord 
is our  great Savior   who never hurts  your  pride and 
leads you to repent. 
  Jesus said in Matthew 9:12-13,  "It is not the  healthy 
who need a doctor, but the sick. But go and learn what 
this means: 'I  desire mercy, but  sacrifice.' For  I have 
not come to call the righteous, but sinners." Jesus didn't 
come for religious rites,  it is just a  religious ceremony 
as a  law. He  said, "I  desire mercy,  but sacrifice."  A 
bruised reed he does not  break, and a smoldering  wick 
He does not snuff  out and He  waits for the  sinner to 
repent. He said, "I have not  come to call the righteous, 
but sinners." Therefore, we should realize that  our Lord 
Jesus Christ earnestly desires  to save sinners and  give 
more thanks to Him. 
  Thirdly, the   sinner that  Jesus  met was   a woman 
caught in adultery. In John 8:3-11, in the morning Jesus 
spoke at the temple and people listened to him. Then all 
of a sudden, there was a loud  noise including voices of 
a woman  and men.  The Pharisees  and the  Sadducees 
brought in a  woman caught in  adultery, with her  hair 
and clothes messy and  with her feet bare.  They threw 
her down  before the  Lord. All  the people   there were 
surprised and watched her. 
  The  disciples   of  Moses,   the  Pharisees   and  the 
Sadducees were the legalists.  They said, "Teacher,  this 
woman was   caught in   adultery. In  the  Law  Moses 
commanded us to stone such women. Now what do you 
say?"  In  this  story, we  can  find something  wrong. 
Why didn't they bring an adulterer but an adulteress? It 
is not fair, is it? They let the man  go but just brought 
in a weak woman  and were going  to condemn her.  In 
the  Law  Moses  commanded  them  to   stone women 
caught in adultery. Without violating the Law she could 
not be spared. If Jesus had said no, He would  not have 
observed the   Law and  they  would  have  said, "You 
ignore the  Law and  you are   not the Messiah,  but a 
heretic." 
  Then Jesus  bent down   and wrote with   His finger. 
The Bible did not say what He wrote but we can easily 
guess that. We can be sure that He would have written 
the ten commandments  of Moses,  for the  people there 
were His disciples. Therefore,  they became more  proud 
and said,  "Look, you   must judge her  with  those ten 
commandments." Since the people  held stones and  bats 
in  their  hands,  the   woman was   trembling,  awfully 
overwhelmed by the horror of death. Then  Jesus looked 
at them and said, "If  anyone of you is  without sin, let 
him be the first to throw a stone at her." 
  Again He  stooped down   and wrote on  the  ground. 
They could see Jesus  writing down all  their sins from 
big ones  to little.  The sins   they committed in  secret 
were being written  by Jesus.  They were  touched and 
thought to  themselves, "If  I begin   to stone her,  then 
Jesus will stone  me." They  slipped away  quietly from 
big sinners to small  sinners. On of  them said, "I  have 
something to do at home so I  have to go. You'd better 
stone her." Another one said, "In fact, I am supposed to 
have a conference. You'd better stone." 
  At last, they were all gone and there were just stones 
and   the  woman   who  was   shivering.  Jesus   said, 
"Woman, lift your  head and  look around.  Has no  one 
condemned you?" All of them disappeared and there was 
nothing but stones  and bats.  The woman  replied, "No 
one, sir."  Jesus declared,  "Then neither  do I  condemn 
you. Go now and leave  your life of sin."  Jesus did not 
make her sin reasonable, for He said, "You should leave 
your life of  sin." And He  rescued her  because He did 
not come to  judge the  world but to  save the  sinners. 
Since  Jesus   came to   save  every   wretched  sinner, 
sinners should   be given   time to   confess their  sins. 
That's why the Lord  hates legalists for  they put their 
sins behind them and judge others. They do not see the 
plank in   their eyes   and condemn   and judge   others 
looking at the speck of sawdust in their eyes. 
  What if Jesus would appear at the National Assembly 
at this moment?  When the  government party  and the 
opposition party argue, insisting on their opinions,  Jesus 
would have said, "If any of  you is without sin, let  him 
be the first to stone."  And if He wrote  their sins with 
His finger, the National Assembly would  be empty. For 
all of  them regardless  of  their party,  would flee  and 
there would be Jesus left alone. 
  Frankly speaking, who has never sinned? All we have 
to do   is not  condemn others   but pray  for them.   If 
others sin, we should be careful not to commit the same 
sin and we  have to  pray for  them so  that they  may 
repent. We  must not  condemn others  nor stone  them. 
Jesus asked,   "Woman, where  are they?   Has no  one 
condemned you?" There's no one that  we can condemn 
before God,  for all  have sinned  and fall  short of   the 
glory of God. We need  to repent of our sins  and enter 
the heart of the Lord. Jesus, in place of the first sinner, 
the second, the  third and all  sinners, bore all  the sins 
on the cross and His body was torn and He shed blood 
suffering from all  the pains  and insults  and destroyed 
our sins. Jesus paid the penalty for all sins. Since Jesus 
paid the  cost for  our sins  by His  torn body  and by 
shedding blood,  He  strongly wants   everyone to  have 
eternal life  without missing  even  a single  sinner and 
shows mercy to  those who repent.  Our Lord  does not 
hurt man's pride but leads him to repent by himself. He 
desires to forgive and save sinners and let them become 
the people of God. 
  John 3:16-18 states, "For God so loved the world that 
He gave His one and only Son, that whoever believes in 
Him shall not perish but  have eternal life. For God  did 
not send His Son into the world  to condemn the world, 
but to save the world through Him. Whoever believes in 
Him is  not condemned,  but whoever  does not  believe 
stands condemned already because  He has not  believed 
in the name of God's one and only Son." Jesus came to 
love and save sinners.  That's why He  does not blame 
nor rebuke sinners  but lets  them keep their  pride and 
repent. Even  the most  wicked sinner,  Jesus tried   His 
best to  save without  condemning. The  more a  sinner 
recognizes his  sins,  the more   he will figure   out the 
height, depth and  width of the  Lord's love and  deeply 
love and thank Him. 

-Prayer-

Dear God our Father, who  has great love and  holiness, 
Jesus who  came to   save sinners, We   thank you for 
showing your grace to those who repent, leading sinners 
to repent by  themselves and  trying your best  to save 
even those  who people   are going to   stone. Heavenly 
God our Father, the Bible says  that though our parents 
may forsake us, Jesus  will accept us.  We should have 
died for our  terrible sins  and deserve  to be  forsaken, 
but you  have been  patient  with us  so that   we may 
repent and be  saved. We  thank you  for such  a great 
Lord, Jesus Christ.  We give  you more thanks  because 
we have already believed  in Jesus and  received eternal 
life. Help us deeply feel that you induce us to repent  of 
our sins   and please  encourage  us so   we may  urge 
unbelievers to repent, accept the Lord and be saved.
