Sunday, January 10th 1999
Title : Things that will be done
Scriptures Reading : Rev 1:10-20

  Next year is  the last  year of  the twentieth century.   
The   twenty-first   century   which   opens   the   new 
millennium is around  the corner.   People make  a fuss 
about the end of the world in  TV or magazines.  They 
quote from  Nostradamus and  say  that the  world will 
come  to  an  end  in   July, 1999   in Lunar   Calendar.        
What will happen in  the future?  The  climate all over 
the   world  changes   unexpectedly.    The   El  Nino 
phenomenon swept over  the globe, which  was followed 
by the La  Nina phenomenon.  There  are floods, heavy 
snowstorms, extreme  cold and  heavy drought.    There 
are wars and rumors of  wars. There are manifestations 
of the explosive work of the Holy  Spirit on one side of 
the globe and  also extreme  secular movements  on the 
other side.  
  We see conspicuous signs of  the end of the age  that 
Jesus predicted.    What will  happen  on earth   in the 
future?  What will be the signs  of the end of the age?   
I  would  like  to  give  you  Biblical  answers  to   this 
question.  Let me tell you of the incidents that will take 
place before the end comes.

  The first is the unification of Europe.  The Bible says 
that  the  Lord  will  come  again  when  the  European 
countries are united.   About 2600  years before  Christ, 
King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon had a dream.  He saw 
a large statue with its head  of pure gold, its chest  and 
arms of silver, its belly and thighs of bronze, its legs of 
iron, and its feet partly of iron and partly of baked clay.  
A rock  was  cut out,   but not by   human hands,  and 
struck the   statue on   its feet  of  iron  and clay   and 
smashed them.  Then the iron, the clay, the  bronze, the 
silver and the gold  were broken to  pieces at the  same 
time and became like  chaff on a  threshing floor in  the 
summer. The wind swept them  away without leaving a 
trace but the rock that struck the statue became a huge 
mountain and filled the  whole earth.  The king  wanted 
to know what  it meant  but the  wise men of  Babylon 
could not interpret it.  
  Daniel received God's  revelation and interpreted  it to 
the king. God showed the history  of the world centered 
on Europe through the  dream of Nebuchadnezzar.  The 
gold head   symbolizes King  Nebuchadnezzar  from 606 
B.C. to   539 B.C.   Silver  chest  and arms   symbolize 
Medes and   Persia from  539 B.C.   to 331  B.C.   The 
bronze belly and thighs symbolize Greece from  331 B.C. 
to 63 B.C.  The iron legs  symbolize the Roman Empire 
from 63 B.C. to 476 A.D.  After that there came the era 
of feet and  ten toes  partly of iron  and partly  of clay.  
These indicate what will  be on Europe, the  territory of 
the old Roman Empire, in the last days.  
  Daniel 2:41-43 says,  "Just as  you saw  that the feet 
and toes were  partly of baked  clay and partly  of iron, 
so this will be a divided kingdom; yet it will have some 
of the  strength of   iron in it,   even as you  saw  iron 
mixed with  clay.  As   the toes were  partly  iron and 
partly clay, so  this kingdom  will be partly  strong and 
partly brittle.  And just as you saw the iron mixed with 
baked clay, so the people will be a mixture and will not 
remain united,   any more  than  iron mixes   with clay.   
This shows the unification of European  countries in the 
last  days.   Some  strong  countries  and  some  weak 
countries of  various  races try  to  be united   but they 
cannot be mixed.  The Bible describes the kingdom that 
God establishes.

  Daniel 2:44-45 says, "In  the time of  those kings, the 
God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be 
destroyed, nor will  it be  left to another  people. It  will 
crush all those kingdoms and bring them to an end, but 
it will itself endure forever.  This is the meaning of the 
vision of the  rock cut  out of  a mountain,  but not  by 
human hands--a rock  that broke  the iron,  the bronze, 
the clay, the silver  and the gold  to pieces.  The  great 
God has  shown the  king what  will take  place in  the 
future. The   dream is   true and   the interpretation   is 
trustworthy."  This prophesies that  ten countries would 
exist in the old Roman Empire territory and  they would 
be   united   as    shown   in   the   dream   of    King 
Nebuchadnezzar and  as Daniel  interpreted.   It is  also 
prophesied that the stone (Jesus Christ) will come down 
from heaven,  destroy  the kingdoms,   and establish  an 
eternal kingdom.   The same   prophecy was shown  to 
Daniel repeatedly and more clearly.

  Daniel had  a dream  from  God in  the first   year of 
Belshazzar king of Babylon.  According to Daniel 7:1-14, 
there was  the four  winds of  heaven churning   up the 
Mediterranean Sea  and four  ferocious beasts   came up 
out of the sea.  The  Bible often describes kingdoms as 
beasts.  The first was like a lion, and it  had the wings 
of an eagle. It indicates  Nebuchadnezzar who conquered 
Europe. He was described  as a lion  with the wings  of 
an eagle.  The second beast  looked like a bear,  having 
three ribs  in its  mouth between  its teeth  and it  was 
raised up on one of its sides.  The bear indicates Persia 
and Medes and  Persia was  stronger than Medes  as it 
was raised up on one of its sides.  The three ribs in its 
mouth means Assyria,  Babylon and  Egypt.  The  third 
beast looked like a leopard with four  wings on its back 
and four  heads.  It   indicates Alexander the  Great  of 
Greece.  Alexander and his four  generals united Middle 
East and Near East.  After his  death, his four generals 
divided the kingdom  into four.  The  fourth beast  with 
large iron   teeth--terrifying and   frightening and  very 
powerful--appeared, crushed   and devoured  its  victims 
and trampled underfoot whatever  was left.  It  indicates 
the Roman  Empire--the  strongest country  that  united 
the European territory.  This beast had ten horns.  
  A little horn came  up among them;  and three of the 
first horns  were  uprooted before  it.  This horn   spoke 
boastfully against God.  It would fight and trample over 
the people of God  for three and a  half years.  A  horn 
coming up from the ten horns and uprooting three horns 
symbolizes the unification of the european  countries and 
the coming of  the Antichrist.  When  ten countries  are 
united,   a  strong   leader  will   appear   and  sign   a 
seven-year peace treaty with Israel.   He will break the 
treaty  after  three   and a   half  years  and  begin   to 
persecute Israel.  The Bible clearly  says that there will 
be God's judgment  after that and  that the kingdom  of 
the Lord will come.

  Listen  carefully  to  Daniel  7:9-14.   "As  I  looked, 
thrones were set in place, and the Ancient of Days took 
his seat. His clothing was as white as snow; the hair of 
his head was  white like wool.  His throne was  flaming 
with fire, and  its wheels  were all ablaze.   A river  of 
fire   was   flowing,  coming   out   from   before  him. 
Thousands upon thousands  attended him;  ten thousand 
times ten  thousand stood   before him. The   court was 
seated, and the books were opened.  Then I continued to 
watch because   of the   boastful words  the  horn  was 
speaking. I kept  looking until  the beast was  slain and 
its body   destroyed and  thrown into   the blazing  fire.  
(The other beasts  had been stripped  of their authority, 
but were allowed to  live for a period  of time.)  In my 
vision at night  I looked, and  there before me  was one 
like a son  of man,  coming with the  clouds of  heaven. 
He approached the Ancient of Days and was led into his 
presence.  He was given authority,  glory and sovereign 
power; all peoples,  nations and men  of every  language 
worshiped him. His dominion is an  everlasting dominion 
that will not  pass away,  and his kingdom  is one  that 
will never be destroyed."

  How wonderful it is!  Here, God  showed what would 
happen through Daniel's  vision: Europe  will be  united; 
the Antichrist will  reign over  Europe; God's  judgment 
will be upon the world; God  will destroy the devil; and 
God will give  authority, glory  and sovereign  power to 
Jesus.  We can see that  this prophecy is being fulfilled 
in this  age.  The  devil has  tried to  unite Europe  by 
force since  the  fall of   Rome.  Napoleon  became the 
French Emperor in  1804 and tried  to unite  Europe but 
failed.  Hitler  gained  the power   in 1933  and started 
World War II.   He almost  conquered Europe  but was 
defeated by   the Allied  force.  Stalin,   who succeeded 
Lenin in 1924, occupied  Eastern European countries and 
tried to expand it toward the West but failed.  
  After  the   Second World   War,  Western   European 
countries lost their status in their  international relations, 
became sandwiched between  the United States  and the 
Soviet  Union,  and  was  threatened   by the   Japanese 
economy.  To survive from  these, they began  to work 
for the unification of Europe.   For economic unification, 
six Western European countries organized ECSC in 1951.  
They removed   customs duties   among themselves   by 
signing a   treaty in  Rome  and organized   EEC for  a 
common community.  They combined three organizations 
of European   countries and   organized EC  in  1967  in 
pursuit of economic and political unification. In 1992 they 
signed the Mastrihid  treaty in Netherlands  and decided 
to have a uniform currency and organized EU, removing 
customs duties and opening  their borders.  On  January 
4, 1999, the uniform currency Euro made its  appearance.  
Euro is the name of this uniform currency of Europe.  
They now   have the   economic unification,  using  this 
uniform currency.  They will  use the uniform  currency 
Euro bills and coins exclusively  in 2002.  There are  15 
membership countries  of EU  now.  They   are moving 
toward the political unification of Europe.

  Now that they  have the  uniform currency,  they can 
have jobs   across the   borders freely.    The customs 
duties are removed.  The  only thing left undone  is the 
political unification.   When Europe  is politically  united 
and when  they have  a great  leader, the  Antichrist, it 
will be the end.  This is the first sign of the end.

  Second, Russia   and Arab   Allies will  attack  Israel.   
Ezekiel chapters  38  and 39  speak  of the   invasion of 
Israel by the united forces and Gog. 
  Listen to the prophecy of Ezekiel 38:1-9. The word of 
the LORD  came to   me: "Son of   man, set your   face 
against Gog, of the  land of Magog,  the chief prince  of 
Meshech and Tubal  (it indicates  Russia and  Moscow); 
prophesy  against  him  and   say: `This   is  what  the 
Sovereign LORD says: I  am against you,  O Gog, chief 
prince of Meshech  and Tubal  (Russia and  Moscow). I 
will turn you around, put hooks in your  jaws and bring 
you  out  with  your  whole  army--your  horses,  your 
horsemen fully armed, and a great horde with large  and 
small shields,   all of   them brandishing   their swords.    
Persia (Iran and  Iraq), Cush  (Egypt) and  Put (Jordan) 
will be  with them,  all with   shields and helmets,  also 
Gomer   (Germany)  with   all   its  troops,   and   Beth 
Togarmah from  the far  north with  all its  troops--the 
many nations with  you.  "Get ready;  be prepared,  you 
and  all   the hordes   gathered   about you,   and  take 
command of them.  After many days you  will be called 
to arms. In future years you will invade a land that has 
recovered from war,  whose people  were gathered from 
many nations to the mountains of Israel, which had long 
been desolate.   They had  been  brought out   from the 
nations, and now all of them live in safety.  You and all 
your troops and the many nations  with you will go up, 
advancing  like  a  storm;   you will   be like   a  cloud 
covering the land.

  One big event in  the future is  the invasion of  Israel 
by Russia and allied forces  of the Arabs.  The sign  of 
this is  compelling.  The  war between  the Arabs  and 
Israel   is  unceasing.    It  is   a  war   between  the 
descendants of Isaac, Abraham's legitimate son, and  the 
descendants  if   Ishmael,  Abraham's   illegitimate  son.    
This  war  can  be  viewed  as  an  independence  war.   
When Israel declared its independence on  May 14, 1948, 
allied armies  of Arab,  including Egypt,  invaded Israel.    
Israel, an army of 64,000 troops defeated the Arab  army 
of 45 million troops.  It resulted in one million  Palestine 
refugees.  
  The second   Middle East   War broke   out in   1956.  
When Egypt  declared its  exclusive use  over the  Suez 
Canal and prohibited Israel ships from going through the 
canal, Israel started the Suez war and won.  
  The third Middle  East War  is the  Six Day  War in 
1967.  Israel attacked  Syria, a  site of  Arab guerrillas, 
which developed   into a  war  between  Israel and   the 
Arabs.  Israel  defeated the  Arabs in   six days.  The 
fourth Middle  East War,  called the  Yom Kipper  War, 
broke out in 1974.   Egypt and Syria  attacked southern 
Israel at 2:00PM on the Great  Atonement Day of Israel, 
while the Israelites  were fasting.   Israel was  weak at 
the beginning  of the  war but  collected its  power and 
won.  Arab countries  have tried  to destroy  Israel but 
failed.  The survival of Israel is one of the signs of the 
last days.  Since  God promised  that He would  rebuild 
Israel, no human power can destroy Israel.   Although it 
looked impossible  for Israel   to win such   wars, Israel 
won every war.  However, the  war between Israel and 
the Arabs still continues.

  The cause that will lead to the fulfillment of Ezekiel's 
prophecy is about to  burst into flames.  Sadam Hussein 
calls  himself  the  descendent  of  Nebuchadnezzar  and 
wants to take possession of Jerusalem.  As Iraq invaded 
Kuwait and tried to  gain control over the  Persian gulf, 
the allied forces  of the  West including the  US started 
the Gulf War  on January 17  1991.  Iraq was  defeated.  
The UN sent inspectors  to Iraq but  Iraq refused to be 
inspected.  The United States  started a war, called  the 
"fox in the desert war"--by attacking Iraq on December 
17, 1998.

  Since Iraq and  Arab countries  had the long  hostility 
against the United States and  Israel, it is very  possible 
that a   disastrous war   against Israel  will  break  out.  
They will get Russia involved in this war, since Russia, 
the former  Soviet Union,  is almost  a Muslim   country 
now and  on good  terms with  the Arabs.   Almost all 
Russians are Muslim.  Because of the economic collapse, 
Russians heavily depend on the Arabs financially.  Since 
their pride was  damaged as  they fell  from the  "super 
power", they are likely  to represent and  be in coalition 
with the Arab  countries against Israel,  whose guardian 
is the United States.   The war between Israel  and the 
allies of the Arabs and Russia is bound to break out  as 
the Bible prophesied.  Israel will defeat its enemies with 
the  help  of  God's  intervention.   It  will   cause the 
complete destruction of the Arab countries and Russia.  
  Then Israel will  rise and  sign the seven  year peace 
treaty with  the united  Europe.  They  will build  their 
temple on  Mt. Zion.    They will destroy   the Arabian 
Mosque and build a temple in its place.  It is about this 
time when the  Antichrist will  appear as  the leader  of 
the old Roman Empire territory.             Revelation 
13:6-8 speaks  of the  beast of  the Antichrist.   It says, 
"He opened his mouth to blaspheme God, and to slander 
His name and His dwelling place and  those who live in 
heaven.  He was given power to  make war against the 
saints and to conquer them. And he was given authority 
over every   tribe, people,   language and   nation.  All 
inhabitants of   the earth   will worship   the beast--all 
whose names have not been  written in the book of  life 
belonging to the Lamb that was  slain from the creation 
of the world."   The Antichrist  will sign a  seven year 
peace treaty with Israel and break it after the first three 
and a half years.  He will build his image in the temple 
and force people to worship it.   Israel will refuse to do 
it and it is the beginning of  the tribulation of Israel for 
three and a half  years.  After this  second three and a 
half years, the Lord will come on earth.

  Matthew 24:21  says,  "For then   there will be   great 
distress, unequaled from the beginning of the world until 
now--and never to  be equaled  again."  This  indicates 
the Middle East War.

  Third,  there  will  be  the  last  war  of  the  human 
race--the Armageddon War.  Then  the history of  man 
will come to  an end.   Revelation 16:12-16  says, "The 
sixth angel   poured out  his  bowl on   the great  river 
Euphrates, and its  water was  dried up  to prepare  the 
way for the  kings from  the East.   Then I  saw three 
evil spirits that looked like  frogs; they came out of  the 
mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast  and 
out of the mouth of the false prophet.   They are spirits 
of demons performing miraculous signs, and they go out 
to the kings of the whole world, to gather  them for the 
battle on  the  great day  of  God Almighty.  'Behold,  I 
come like a thief!  Blessed is he  who stays awake  and 
keeps his  clothes  with him,   so that he   may not  go 
naked and be shamefully exposed."  Then they gathered 
the kings together to the place that  in Hebrew is called 
Armageddon.'"  
  Armageddon is  the name  of the  plain "Megiddo"  in 
northern Israel. It is a grand plain on which many wars 
were fought.   The European  army  and Eastern  army 
will fight there.   As Europe  expands its power,  China 
and Japan  and the  Eastern countries  will collect  their 
forces and stand  against Europe.  The  Bible says that 
the  number  of   the mounted   troops  would  be   two 
hundred million. How can it be  so large?  The Chinese 
population  is  1.3  billion  and  they  have   250 million 
Chinese troops  in 1985.   Therefore, the  Eastern army 
will have at least 250 million troops.  
  Revelation 9:14-16  says, "It  said  to the  sixth angel 
who had the trumpet, 'Release  the four angels who are 
bound at   the great  river Euphrates.'    And the  four 
angels who had been kept ready for  this very hour and 
day and month and year were released to kill a third of 
mankind.  The number of the  mounted troops was two 
hundred million. I heard their number."  The grand army 
of the East will gather in Armageddon and  confront the 
European army.    The Armageddon   war will   be so 
disastrous that blood flows out of the press and rises as 
high as the  horses' bridles  for a distance.   It is  then 
that Jesus   will come  on earth.    When Jesus  comes 
again at the end of  the seven years, the Antichrist  and 
all the  troops will  stop  their war  and begin  to  fight 
Jesus and   His companions.    However, they  will  be 
defeated by the heavenly forces.  The Antichrist will be 
thrown into the  blazing sulphur.   Those who  had the 
marks of the beast  will be destroyed  with him.  Then 
the Millennium Kingdom will come.

  Revelation 19:11-21 says, "I saw heaven standing open 
and there before me was  a white horse, whose rider  is 
called Faithful  and True.   With justice he   judges and 
makes war.  His eyes  are like blazing fire,  and on his 
head are many crowns. He  has a name written on  him 
that no one knows but  he himself.  He is dressed  in a 
robe dipped in blood, and his name is the Word of  God.  
 The  armies of  heaven were  following him,  riding on 
white horses and dressed in fine  linen, white and clean.  
Out of his mouth  comes a sharp  sword with which  to 
strike down the nations. "He will rule them with an iron 
scepter." He  treads the   winepress of the   fury of the 
wrath of God Almighty.  On  his robe and on his  thigh 
he has this name written: KING OF KINGS AND LORD 
OF LORDS.  And I saw  an angel standing in  the sun, 
who cried  in a   loud voice to   all the birds  flying  in 
midair, "Come, gather  together for  the great supper  of 
God, so that you  may eat the  flesh of kings,  generals, 
and mighty  men, of   horses and their   riders, and the 
flesh of  all  people, free   and slave, small   and great."   
Then I saw  the beast and  the kings  of the earth  and 
their armies gathered together to  make war against the 
rider on the  horse and  his army.  But  the beast  was 
captured,  and  with  him  the  false  prophet  who  had 
performed the   miraculous signs   on his   behalf. With 
these signs he had deluded  those who had received the 
mark of the beast and worshiped his image. The two of 
them were thrown  alive into  the fiery lake  of burning 
sulfur.  The rest  of them  were killed  with the sword 
that came out  of the mouth  of the rider  on the horse, 
and all the birds gorged themselves on their flesh."

  Everybody is curious  about what  will happen  in the 
future and how the end  will come.  I have summarized 
the three  things in  the future  according to  the  Bible.  
No one  knows the  day or   the hour when  Jesus will 
come.  Only the Father knows.   However, the signs of 
His  coming  are  repeatedly  prophesied   in the   Bible.  
When European countries  are united  and when  Russia 
and  the  Arabs  attack  Israel,  the  church  should   be 
prepared   to  be   raptured.   After   the  seven   year 
tribulation   after   the   rapture,   there   will   be   the 
Armageddon War.  Humanity will come  to an end, and 
the Millennial Kingdom will come.  
  Luke 21:34-36 says,  "Be careful,  or your  hearts will 
be weighed down with dissipation,  drunkenness and the 
anxieties  of  life,   and that   day  will   close on   you 
unexpectedly like  a trap.    For it will   come upon all 
those who  live on  the  face of  the whole   earth.  Be 
always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to 
escape all that is about to happen, and that you may be 
able to   stand before   the Son  of  Man."   Euro,  the 
uniform European currency is  very strong.  US  dollars 
and Japanese  yens  are weakened.   Europe  is getting 
united  as  prophesied  in  the  Bible.   It  is  a  grand 
progress and no  one can  stop it.   After the  complete 
unification of Europe in the economic sense, they will be 
united in the  political sense.   Then the coming  of the 
Lord will be very  near.  When such things  take place, 
lift up your head and  look at heaven.  The  day of our 
departure for home is very close.
