Sunday, May 30th 1999
Title : Pray Always and Do Not Give Up!
Reading Scriptures : Lk 18:1-8

  It is not easy to pray.  The disciples of Jesus pleaded 
with Him, "Lord, please, show  us how to pray." Prayer 
is the key to open  the door of heaven  and the way to 
move the hand of  God. Yet, many people  do not know 
how to pray and they wander.

  First, in  order  to know  how  to pray,   we have to 
know how to begin to pray. As soon as people come  to 
God, they ask Him for what they want. But they should 
not begin   that way.  When  they  come  to God   they 
should put their  requests aside,  first look  to Him  and 
begin to pray with thanks and praise to Him.

  Psalm 100:4 says, "Enter His  gates with thanksgiving 
and His  courts with  praise;  give thanks  to Him   and 
praise His name."  Thanksgiving will  open the  door of 
heaven and praise will lead us to God. If we don't open 
the door of heaven nor come to God but just cry out to 
Him, it will be of no use. It is written, "Enter His gates 
with thanksgiving."  We can  open  the door  of heaven 
with thanksgiving   and enter  His  courts  with  praise. 
That's why when  we begin to  pray, we  should thank 
and praise God.

  For what shall we  thank and praise  Him? Have you 
ever thanked and praised God for nature which gives us 
life? Have you thanked God for  the sun, air, water, the 
earth, grain, health and life?  We should sincerely thank 
Him for the  sun, air,  water, the  earth and  grain. We 
should also praise God that He so loved this  world that 
He gave   His only   Son and   saved us   through His 
crucifixion. On the cross,  the Lord gave us  forgiveness 
and righteousness,  drove out  secularity  and the  devil, 
granted  us  heaven  and  the  Holy   Spirit. There   He 
removed sorrow and gave us  joy; sickness, healing and 
health; the  curse,  Abraham's blessing;   the death and 
hell, heaven and  eternal life,  resurrection and  glory. If 
we don't thank  and praise God  for what  He gave us, 
His gates will not open  and we can't enter His  courts. 
Therefore, when we pray,  we should thank,  praise and 
honor God and then deeply repent before Him. If God is 
angry and sorry  for our  sins, our prayers  will not  be 
answered.

  It is written in Isaiah  1:15-18, "When you spread out 
your hands in  prayer, I  will hide  my eyes  from you; 
even if you offer  many prayers, I will  not listen. Your 
hands are   full of  blood;  wash  and make   yourselves 
clean. Take your evil deeds out of my sight! Stop doing 
wrong, learn  to do  right!  Seek justice,  encourage the 
oppressed. Defend the cause of  the fatherless, plead the 
case of the widow. 'Come now,  let us reason together,' 
says the Lord. 'Though your  sins are like scarlet,  they 
shall be  as  white as  snow;  though they   are red as 
crimson,  they  shall be  like wool."  Hence, we  should 
confess all our sins  before God. For He  does not have 
pity on   those who   hide their   sins. But   those who    
repent, the  Lord will  forgive and  save. Therefore,  we 
should always   repent while   praying. After   that, we 
should earnestly call out to the Lord.

  Jeremiah 33:3 says, "Call to me and I will answer you 
and tell you great  and unsearchable  things you do not 
know." Likewise, with  earnest and  fervent  hearts, we 
should pray to the Lord.

  Secondly, what shall we do when  we pray? We have 
to realize what  Jesus tells us  about that. He   tells us 
that we need extreme patience while  praying. When we 
pray, we may be weary and  exhausted, yet  we should 
continue to pray for answers. Jesus told a parable: "In a 
certain town there was a judge who  neither feared God 
nor  cared  about  men.  And  there  was   a poor   and 
miserable widow in that town  who kept coming to him 
with the plea, 'Grant me justice  against my adversary.' 
Yet, the judge refused. He did  not pay any attention to 
her. Then the widow became weary and depressed. The 
unjust judge said to himself, "Before  long she will give 
up." But the widow made  a strong resolution  to  plead 
with the judge.  So both  of them persisted  as long  as 
they could.

  When we pray, God  tests our patience  and the devil 
keeps us from  praying.  The devil thinks  that we will 
stop praying sometime. God thinks that we may give up 
our faith  sometime. Yet,  Jesus tells   us that we  need 
unlimited perseverance. When  God does not  answer us 
and the devil attacks us through doubt, we  may be sad 
and discouraged.

  Psalm 42:10-11 says, "My  bones suffer mortal  agony 
as my foes taunt me, saying to me all day long, 'Where 
is your God?' Why are you downcast, O my soul? Why 
so disturbed within  me? Put  your hope  in God,  for I 
will yet praise Him, my Savior and  my God." Likewise, 
both in the past and the present we may  be weary and 
disappointed   when  we   pray.  But   only   when  we 
overcome, will we receive answers. We should overcome 
sin, frustration and despair.

  The Bible states  in Luke 18:4-5,  "For some time  he 
refused. But finally  he said to  himself, 'Even though  I 
don't fear  God  or care   about men, yet   because this 
widow keeps  bothering  me, I  will  see that   she gets  
justice, so that she won't  eventually wear me out  with 
her coming!'"  The widow   kept coming to   the unjust 
judge and  he couldn't  stand it  and he  said, "Because 
this widow keeps bothering me, I will see that she gets 
justice." We have  to cry out  with severe patience  and 
overcome weariness.

  When Daniel prayed with his fellow men near  a river 
for the future  of  Israel,  there was no  answer for  10 
days and 15 days and  his friends were all  disappointed 
and went back. Daniel was left alone and  prayed for 20 
days. On the 21st day, suddenly heaven was opened and 
an angel appeared in splendid  glory and said to  Daniel, 
"Daniel, since the  first day that  you set  your mind to 
pray to God, your words  were heard, and I  have come 
in response   to them.  But  the  prince of   the Persian 
kingdom resisted me for 21 days.  Then Michael, one of 
the chief   princes, came   to help  me,  because  I was 
detained there  with  the king   of Persia.  Now I   have 
come to explain to you what will happen to your people 
in  the  future."  Hence,  we  should  pray  beyond  our 
serious circumstance. We  have to  overcome weariness, 
despair and   disappointment. Rockefeller,   an American 
millionaire, was deceived  by his  friend and  bought an 
abandoned mine   for all   his property.   He had  many 
people work at the mine but  they didn't dig  any  gold 
from there,  only stones.   He ran  out  of  money. His 
workers strongly asked him for their wages.

  Finally, he  was totally  broke.  He cried  out to  God 
before the mine, "Lord, since I believed in Jesus,  I have 
kept the Sabbath day and  never stolen tithe. I  invested 
in this terrible  mine and  failed. Now I  am weary  and 
disappointed. I can do no more." Then the Lord spoke to 
his heart and  said, "Be  silent and have  peace. Get  up 
and dig the mine more  deeply." He said, "Lord.  I can't 
and I have  no money." But  the Lord said  again,  "Be 
courageous and   dig a   little more."   So he  borrowed 
money and had the workers  dig the mine again. People 
said that  he  was crazy.  However,  when he   dug the 
mine more deeply, there was no gold but suddenly black 
water was gushing out. That was petroleum! He sold oil 
and became very rich.  When we overcome  despair and 
pray, we can receive answers. When we  are weary and 
disappointed and  think we   can't do any  more,  if we 
keep   praying,  the   devil   will  flee   and   God  will 
acknowledge   our    faithful   heart.   We    need   this 
perseverance. While   praying, many   people are   easily 
depressed, frustrated, and weary and finally give up.

  Thirdly, we should clearly  know how to  pray. When 
we pray  for a  long time,  some people   may strive to 
pray fluently.  How do  we  keep praying  fluently? We 
can't pray that way.

  Matthew 6:7-8 tells us, "When you pray,  do not keep 
on babbling  like pagans,   for they think   they will be 
heard because  of  their many   words. Do  not be   like 
them, for your Father knows what you need  before you 
ask Him."  Some people  think that  they will  be heard 
when they  use many  words but  you should  not pray 
that way. Since God  knows what we  want, we should 
keep praying simply and briefly. We  have to accept the 
way that the  widow prayed.  She just said,  "Grant me 
justice against my adversary." She said the same words 
in spring, summer, fall  and winter. She  was answered, 
not because  of her  fluent  prayer, but  because of  her 
persistent prayer. That's  why you  don't have  to pray 
fluently but simply and often.

  We read in 1 Thessalonians 5:17, "Pray continually." It 
means that we  should not stop  praying with  desire in 
our hearts. We also read in 1 Samuel 7:8, "They said to 
Samuel, 'Do not  stop crying  out to the  Lord our  God 
for us, that  He may  rescue us  from the  hand of  the 
Philistines.'"  We  should   pray continually   and  plead 
strongly. We  must persist   in our prayer.   As a child 
strongly asks his  mother for cookies  by crying,  laying 
down and squirming, so we have to strongly plead with 
God while praying.

  Luke 11:5-8 says,  "Then He  said to them,  'Suppose 
one of you has a friend, and he goes to him at midnight 
and says,  'Friend, a  friend of  mine in  a journey  has 
come to  me, and  I  have nothing  to set   before him.' 
Then the  one inside  answers, 'Don't   bother me. The 
door is already locked, and my  children are with me in 
bed. I can't get  up and give you  anything.' I tell  you, 
though he   will not  get up   and give  him  the bread 
because he   is his  friend,  yet because   of the  man's 
boldness he will  get up and  give him  as much as  he 
needs."

  Jesus once told a story,  "A man visited his  friend at 
night and the friend had nothing to eat. He  went to his 
friend and said, 'Friend, lend  me three loaves of  bread. 
Then the   one inside  said,  'I'm  finished with   things 
today and my  children are with  me in  bed so I  can't 
get up   to give  you  something.' Then   what did  the 
friend do?  He persisted,  'Friend, give  me bread.  Give 
me bread.  Give me  bread. Give  me bread.'  He didn't 
say, 'My dear friend, my  lovely friend, my kind friend. 
How good it is  to give me  bread!' He said,  'Give me 
bread. Give  me bread.   Give me  bread, bread,   bread, 
bread, bread, bread, bread,  bread, ---.' He  kept crying 
out. Then what did the one inside say? He said, 'I give 
you bread not because  you are my  friend, but because 
of your   boldness.'" When   we pray,   we should   ask 
strongly like this. When  we persist in praying,  we can 
be heard.

  Fourthly, when we  pray, we  should pray  with faith 
and not doubt.
  James 1:6-8  says, "When  he asks,   he must believe 
and not doubt, because he who doubts is like a wave of 
the sea,   blown and  tossed  by  the  wind. That   man 
should not think he will receive anything from the Lord; 
he is  a double-minded  man, unstable  in all  he does." 
When we doubt if God will answer us or not, He won't 
answer us. We have to  confess with faith. In order  for 
that, we should  stand firm  on God and  His word  but 
not on  anything else.  Circumstances may  come to  us 
like a storm saying,  "You are not  heard." So may  our 
senses and experiences. If we listen to them, we will be 
moved. We  must stand  firm on  the Word  which will 
never change. We must  look at the  Word, meditate on 
it, speak it, stand on it and follow it  even if we live or 
die, succeed or fail, prosper  or ruin. We must stand  on 
the word   and pray.   "Faith comes   from hearing  the 
message, and the message is heard through the Word of 
Christ." We should not stand on any  other thing except 
the Word. If we stand  on the Word and  pray, most of 
our requests are answered.

  Matthew 7:7-11 tells us, "Ask and it will  be given to 
you; seek and you will find; knock and the door will be 
opened to you. For everyone who asks receives; he who 
seeks finds; and  to him who  knocks, the  door will be 
opened. 'Which of  you, if his  son asks for  bread, will 
give him a  stone? Or  if he asks  for a  fish, will give 
him a snake? If you,  then,  though you are  evil, know 
how to  give  good gifts  to  your children,   how much 
more will  your  Father in   heaven give  good gifts  to 
those who  ask him!  Our God  wants to  answer when 
you cry out.

  Yet, the devil  shoots the  arrow of  doubt at  us. He 
keeps on shooting the arrow of  fire into our hearts. He 
tells us, "It doesn't  make sense. You can't.  You won't 
be heard.  You will  die  of disease  and be  abandoned. 
You will  fail in  your business.  You can't."  The devil 
always comes and shoots  a negative arrow of  fire into 
our hearts.  Some  of our  church  members dreamed  a 
little dream over and over again  and the dream became 
reality. Some time later, they  depended on their dreams 
more than on the  word of God. In  fact, that was done 
by the  devil. He  told them so  awfully and negatively 
that they  might be  uneasy and  nervous and   even be 
destroyed. No matter what  dreams or visions  you may 
have, if they do  not agree with the  Word of God,  you 
must not believe those dreams and visions. For only the 
word of God  is true. Unless  dreams and visions  agree 
with the  Word of  God,  they are  false. If  they  agree 
with the word of God, they are true, but if not, they are 
false. Therefore, we should not accept the doubts of  the 
devil. If we do, we will be depressed more and more.

  During my  young days,  I used  to hear  many  fairy 
tales. I   still remember  something  from one   of those 
tales, that is, when we see a goblin at night, if we look 
at the goblin,  he will grow  taller and  taller...up to the   
sky, so we should look down. They say that if we  look 
down the goblin will  become short. In  this way, if  we 
listen to the word of the devil, it will grow great. But if 
we  look  down  to  him,   he will   become small   and 
disappear.

  We should  act like  Abraham. Romans  4:19-22 says, 
"Without weakening in his  faith, he faced the  fact that 
his body was as  good as dead--since  he was about  a 
hundred years  old--and that  Sarah's  womb was  also 
dead. Yet he  did not waver  through unbelief regarding 
the promise of  God, but was  strengthened in  his faith 
and gave glory to  God, being fully persuaded  that God 
had power to do what He had promised. This is why 'it 
was credited to  him as  righteousness.'" After  deciding 
to have faith, a  sister came to me  and said, "Pastor,  I 
try to believe but I  have no faith in my  heart." It was 
not true. She  was also  deceived by the  devil, because 
she  confirmed  her  faith  with  her  feelings.  Faith  is 
different from  feeling. Faith  comes  from our  decision. 
The Bible says, "God  has given each  of us a measure 
of faith." No matter how  much faith we feel,  God  has 
given us faith. Do not try to feel faith.

  Once you make  up your  mind to  believe, you  must 
have  faith   though you   can't  see,   hear and   catch 
anything in your  circumstance. You  must have  strong 
faith and  never fail  to  be discouraged.  We must   not 
accept depression, because it  means we obey  the devil. 
If we   are disappointed,  we  yield to   the devil.  It  is 
written, "Stand firm  with faith." We  should not  waver 
nor be   discouraged. In  any  circumstance,  we  should 
have hope. The good news  of Christianity is hope. God 
gives us hope. If we accept depression, it will lead us to 
destruction.

  Galatians 6:9 says, "Let us not become weary in doing 
good, for at the  proper time we  will reap a  harvest if 
we do not give up."

  Hebrews   12:1-2   also  says,   "Let   us   run  with 
perseverance the race marked out for us. Let us fix our 
eyes on  Jesus, the  author and  perfecter of  our faith." 
Looking up to Jesus, we should  not be discouraged nor 
shrink back.   We should   only believe   and persevere. 
Perseverance is important. Once we pray and cry out to 
God, we should trust Him. We should believe and never 
shrink back. We must persevere. Faith  is being sure of 
what we hope for.

  Mark 11:22-24 tells us, "Have faith in  God. I tell you 
the truth, if  anyone says  to this mountain, 'Go, throw 
yourself into the sea,'  and does not  doubt in his heart 
but believes that  what he says  will happen, it  will be 
done for him. Therefore I tell you, whatever  you ask in 
prayer, believe that you have received  it, and it will be 
yours." We should  believe that we  have received what 
we prayed and  have faith.  Why should  we have faith 
after we have  good circumstances?  We should  not be 
moved by our  circumstances but we  should create our 
future and circumstance  by our  faith. That's  why we 
need to decide to have faith in God. Then the devil, like 
the unjust judge, will flee and God will   smile and say, 
"Your faith is true. It'll be done as you believed."

  Today, when we face trials, calamity  and affliction, it 
is faith, through  faith we can bear them.  Our neighbor 
can't help us, neither  can our relative  nor our nation... 
only God. The Psalmist says, "I will lift  up my eyes to 
the mountain.  Where does  my help  come from?   It is 
from God,  who created   heaven and earth."  Therefore, 
there is no  other way  but praying  for us  to be  with 
God.

  Luke 18:7-8 says,  "Will not  God bring  about justice 
for His   chosen ones,  who cry   out to  Him day   and 
night? Will He  keep putting  them off?  I tell  you, He 
will see  that  they get  justice,  and quickly.  However, 
when the Son of Man  comes, will He find faith  on the 
earth?" We should cry  out day and  night. How should 
we cry out?  We should cry  out with  strong desire in 
mind.  We  should  pray  with  extreme  necessity.  We 
should not pray for  fun without any desire.  We should 
not pray thinking that answers  don't  matter, but with 
deep desire and weeping, "Lord,  hear me. Please rescue 
me out of this terrible  pit: bankruptcy, family problems, 
and poverty. We have to pray  with serious earnestness. 
When we pray, we should endure, persevere, persist and 
cry out in faith, and then we'll  win. You should not be 
discouraged if you  are not  easily heard.  For the  devil 
keeps us  from  receiving answers,  and  God tests  our 
faith...whether it is  true or  false. If we  pass His  test, 
our faith   will change  our destiny,   circumstances and 
history. Something  unsearchable that  we do  not know 
will take place in our lives!

-Prayer-
  Dear holy and glorious  God our Father,  many people 
do not know how to  pray, so they do not  receive your 
abundant grace and they are starving.
Oh, our Father,  as the  prodigal son said  that there  is 
great  food  in   my father's   house,  your   house has 
abundant things to eat.  And in your  house there is all 
grace prepared  that can  make us  prosperous  in spirit 
and in  our lives  with  good health  and abundant   life. 
Yet, the devil keeps us from  going there. You also test 
our faith. In order to pass through, help us be armed in 
our hearts as  we listen  to the  sermon. "If he  shrinks 
back, I will not be pleased  with him. My righteous one 
will live by  faith. Very  soon, He  who is  coming will 
come and will not  delay," said the Lord.  Father, please 
help us have persistent  faith. We pray  in the name  of 
Jesus, Amen.
