Title: The Covenant of God and the Rainbow
Scripture Reading : Genesis 9:8-17

Our Father is God of covenant. God promised Abraham that his descendants would become a great nation and people. When Abraham was 85, God promised to give him a son. To the letter, God fulfilled all His promises. God promised David that Messiah would be born from his descendant and 2,000 years ago, through Virgin Mary, Jesus Christ was born in Bethlehem to fulfill the promise; God fulfills all His covenants to the fullest. Let us examine the covenant God made with Noah. During his time, many people were depraved and God departed from this world, greatly angered, and brought death to all life on land. For forty days and forty night, the rain poured as the flood covered the world smiting all animals which breathe through their noses. At that time, Noah and his family of eight received the grace of God allowing him to make an ark to save his family; Along with Noah the animals selected by God were also led into the ark and escaped death. However, after the rain, as Noah's family stood on the ground and began life anew, they carried a tremendous psychological burden, an illness. With the slightest of wind, cloud or drop of rain, they thought, "Another flood is coming!" They ran and hid in the ark. Many times during a single week, they dove headlong into the ark, their life was a mess. All suffered mental breakdown. At such a time, God made a covenant that He would never again judge the world with a flood and as proof, He made the rainbow. It is written in Genesis 9:11-13, "'Establish my covenant with you: Never again will all life be cut off by the waters of a flood; never again will there be a flood to destry the earth.' And God said, 'This is the sign of the covenant I am making between me and you and every living creature with you, a covenant for all generations to come: I have set my rainbow in the clouds, and it will be the sign of the covenant between me and the earth.'" Now, Noah's family saw when the winds blew as the dark clouds covered the sky and rain began to fall, a rainbow of red, orange, yellow, green, blue, dark blue and purple, appearing in the midst of it all. They now suffered a conflict. When they feel the wind and look to the cloud and the rain, they wanted to run to the ark, however, they saw the rainbow between the clouds which was a sign of God's covenant. Should they look to the environment in great fear, or should they place their trust on the covenant, the rainbow, of God? For a long time, they must have struggled between the two.  However, as time passed, they began to look to the rainbow and overcome their environment. "When the rainbow appears, no matter how much the wind blows and it rains, there is no flood." Afterwards, even as the winds howled and the heavy rain fell from the dark clouds, if they saw the rainbow, they stood strong and could overcome the wind, the clouds and the rain with bold faith in their hearts. Whenver the clouds covered the sky, they looked to the rainbows. If they only saw the clouds, they felt anxious; If they only felt the rain, they were gripped with fear. However, even as the sky became dark and rain fell, they looked to the rainbow and pointed to it boldly. "Look, the rainbow! We need not hide in the ark. We need to only look at the rainbow, trust in God's covenant and live in complete confidence." They now felt secure in faith. There is a great lesson for us all. The descendants of Adam live in this world drowning in the flood of sin. We have fallen into sin, become its servant and awash in it; All of us are filled with anxiety and fear at dark clouds and rain of sin. We cannot overcome sin ourselves. The world and Satan hit us much like a flood. The flood of worldliness hits us and carries us down. The worldliness in the form of drunkenness, wayward lifestyle and all sorts of ungodliness come like the flood to drown the people, the homes and the societies. How could we overcome such flood of Satan? Or, we may be faced with the flood of illness. Worries, troubles, anxiety, impatience, despair, hatred, hardship, suffering and disappointment floods into our hears and turns into various floods of illness of the body taking us down to drown; Who would not fear such consequence? Today, are we not facing yet another terrible economic crisis following the so-called "IMF" crisis? The large, mid and small sized businesses must carry out the restructuring, but instead, many folded as thousands lost their jobs even as the economic indicators have plunged. The curse, the poverty and the economic harshp, these are floods. As we face the coming flood, what must we do to stay out of harm's way? The final flood we must all face is death itself. Who can avoid death? When an average Joe dies, his family and friends grieve; When a great man dies, many people grieve. It is only a difference in number, nothing more. All men are born only once and slowly begins to drown in the flood of death. Mankind has been completely overcome by fear and anxiety of this destiny which he cannot avoid. The flood of disaster comes upon without warning and bring unhappiness to countless number of people and families as they head toward destruction; Although all of us know this well, no one knows when. In order to escape from this flood, mankind has made various types of arks into which they flee when the see the clouds gather or raindrops fall, making an instant dash within its supposed safety; However, they do not offer safety. What must we do? Just as God made the rainbow appear within the clouds as covenant for Noah and his family, for us, God allowed Christ to be nailed on the cross so that His blood could paint a fiver colored rainbow. No matter how deep the flood may be with the howling winds and dark clouds, we only need to look upon the cross and see the five-colored rainbow in faith. It is for us to overcome the flood. When the clouds cover the sky and the flood of sin pours down, we should not drown in it, but we must look to the cross on Calvary and see the wondrous rainbow of forgiveness and righteousness. Although we are sinful, unrighteous, vile and deserving condemnation, Christ has taken up our sins on the cross and redeemed us; The cross signifies such covenant that we are made well. We must look to that covenant as we overcome sin and are forgiven and made righteous as we enjoy the glory of God, living in victory. It is written in Romans 8:1-2, "Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, because through Christ Jesus the law of the Spirit of life set me free from the law of sin and death." Isn't this an amazing covenant? Such rainbow of the covenant of forgiveness is on the cross. Whosoever looks to the cross of Jesus Christ and sees the rainbow of the covenant of forgiveness will be forgiven and receive salvation. We may face the flood of the cloud of Satan and the world. The temptation of the world and its flood will come washing over us as Satan comes to rob, kill and destroy us; At such a time, we must look to the cross on Calvary and see that the rainbow of the fullness of the Holy Spirit and Heaven right on the cross. God drives away the world through the blood of Jesus Christ and destroys Satan while manifesting the rainbow of the fullness of the Holy Spirit and Heaven on the cross. It is the rainbow of the covenant. As such, no matter how deep the flood of the world may be as Satan jumps at us to rob, kill and destroy us, if we look to the rainbow of God's covenant between the clouds, we can be assured that the world would be driven out by the blood of Jesus Christ as Heaven enters into us to drive out Satan; When we have faith in such, the victory would indeed be ours. It is written in 1 John 4:13, "We know that we live in him and he is us, because he has give us of his Spirit." What shall we do when the cloud of illness of our body covers the sky and brings on the flood? When the worries, troubles, anxiety, fretfulnes, despair, hatred, jealousy, and anger hits us like the flood to bring various illnesses upon us, shall we be destroyed by them? What shall we do? Even amid such dark clouds, if we look to the cross on Calvary, we can see the rainbow of the covenant. It is the covenant of God to heal us through the blood of Jesus Christ. It is written in Psalm 103:3-5, "who forgives all your sins and heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit and crowns you with love and compassion, who satisfies your desires with good things so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's." The covenant that we have been made well through the stripes He received shows through. If we do not shiver in fear even as we look to the ills of our bodies, the clouds hanging over us, but look to the rainbow between the clouds as we overcome them, we can become victorious. Well then, what do we do about the curse and poverty? People are losing jobs, businesses are crumbling and the winds are beginning to blow; Isn't this the dark clouds? The flood of poverty drowns us. What shall we do? Where can we turn to? To the ark? Can our nation become our ark? Can social welfare be our ark? If we look to the cross on Calvary, we can once again see that there is a rainbow of God's covenant. That covenant is recorded in Galatians 3:13-14, "Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written: 'Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree. He redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus, so that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit." We are all aware of the grace of Christ; He became poor, one who was rich so that through his poverty, we could become rich. That is the rainbow of the covenant. When we look upon that covenant, we can overcome the wind of the curse, the dark clouds and the rains. God tells us that man does not live by bread along but by the Word of God. Bread does not sustain us by itself. The Word of God is the miracle which gives us life. We must see the beautiful rainbow of the covenant on Calvary. The world is not filled only with dark clouds and rain, but we must realize that there is the rainbow of the covenant as well. When the dark clouds of death and destruction cover us, all are paralyzed. Death must be faced individually. Your beloved husband, wife or children cannot accompany you. That lonely death comes upon you and drowns you in its flood; Who would not despair in fear? However, even in such moments, when you look up to the cross on Calvary, you will see the beautiful rainbow of the covenant. That is the rainbow of the covenant of Heaven, eternal life and resurrection. It is written in 1 Thessalonians 4:16-18, "For the Lord himself will come down from heaven, with a loud command, with the vice of the archangel and with the trumpet call of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. After that, we who are still alive and are left will be caught p together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will be with the Lord forever. Therefore encourage each other with these words." We will be able to see the wondrous rainbow of the covenant of eternal life on the cross on Calvary. As such, we do not need to feel lost as we look on our dire situations. Our situations are usually rather dire. The wind blows, the dark clouds cover the sky and rain begins to fall. We must not take too much of it in fear and shiver in the arks made by man. We must come out of the arks and need not return into it. Why? When the wind blows, when the dark clouds cover the sky and when rain pours down, the rainbow is also there. We must look to the covenant, trust in God's power as we overcome this world. As we live in this world, we face sin, worldliness, sadness, illness, poverty, curse and death. These cannot be avoided. However, when we look to the cross on Calvary, we can see the rainbow of the covenant. As such, we must look to the covenant and overcome them. God urged Joshua, "No one will be able to stand up against you all the days of your life. AS I was with Moses, so I will be with you; I will never leave you nor forsake you. Be strong and courageous, because you will lead these people to inherit the land I swore to their forefathers to give them. Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the law my servant Moses gave you; do not turn from it to the right or to the left, that you may be successful wherever you go. Do not let this Blood of the Law depart from your mouth; meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do everything written in it. Then you will be prosperous and successful. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be terrified; do not be discouraged for the Lord your God will be with you wherever you go." We should not fear the situation around us but look to the rainbow of the covenant, strengthen our hearts, and be courageous. God led the Israelites to victory in Canaan, over the seven tribes, to conquer the land through various hardships. If they only saw the barriers, they would have been destroyed. We must not look at the clouds but the covenant. Repeat after me, "Dont look at the cloud. Look to the covenant." It is written in Deuteronomy 31:8, "The Lord himself goes before you and will be with you; he will never leave you nor forsake you. Do not be afraid; do not be discouraged." Rather than looking at the wind, rather than looking at the cloud, we must look to the covenant within them. Through it, we must believe in God and be strong at heart. A sister in the Seo-dae-mun district, Yoo Eun-hee began to experience paralysis in her hands and her shoulders; Later her whole body began to be paralyzed. She went to various hospitals and even the eastern medicine doctors, all to no avail and finally the doctors diagnosed cervical cancer. A tumor was growing in her neck bone. 

She received a surgery but it resurfaced and became cancerous. A cancer in her neck. Because of the cancer, her nerves were affected and she became paralyzed neck down. She needed help for everything and only her eyes moved. She faced absolute despair. The cancerous tumor was eating away at her neck. The doctors said all humanly help had reached the end. She only had not so long to live. However, she and her mother did not believe the dark clouds, the winds and death could drown her. They looked to the rainbow of the covenant. They looked to the cross on Calvary and said, "Christ was injured so that we could be healed. He took all of our infirmities so that we could be well." Even in such absolute despair, they looked to the rainbow of the covenant and prayed to God. In faith they prayed and called out to God and as they fell asleep in complete exhaustion, she heard God's voice, "You have been paralyzed, yet you still have faith in me?" "Yes, God, I believe." "Then, stand up and walk." She awoke from her sleep. "That was the voice of God." All that the doctors told her were like the wind, the dark clouds and the rain. They were near the end. For seven days, they fasted as they called out to God in faith. Then, for a MRI, she got in the wheelchair and went to the test room. They tested her. The doctors were shocked. Why? The arm was completely gone. No tumor. It was a miracle. She came out of the hospital nd today she is a married woman with a wonderul family; Her children come to this church and they are a truly beautiful Christian family. If they had looked only to the winds, the dark clouds and the rain in fear, she would not have lived. However, even amid such misfortune, they hung strong and looked to the rainbow of the covenant. The result of their prayer was the miracle of God. When the rain storm and dark clouds come upon you, your negative faith will be the end of you. The descendants of Noah tried to escape the flood forever and they build the Tower of Babel. They hoped never to drown in the flood, however, the Tower of Babel fell. Today, many people build arks in order to escape from the flood, many build the towers of babel. It is written in Isaiah 59:1-2, "Surely the arm of the Lord is not too short to save, nor his ear too dull to hear, but your iniquities have separated you from your God; your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he will not hear." when we repent and come to Christ, abandoning all our negative thoughts and only look to the cross on Calvary even amid troubles, we will see the wondrous rainbow. We must always look to the rainbow and live with positive minds. It is written in 2 Corinthians 1:20, "For no matter how many promises God has made, they are 'Yes' in Christ. And so through him, the 'Amen' is spoken by us to the glory of God." As such, those who believe in Christ must look to the cross and not lose hope or dream. Although many trials may stand in our way, we can overcome them through faith in Christ." People are only given trials which they could over come and there is always a way out only if we believe. Looking to the covenant and praying in faith as the Holy Spirit empowers us can help us to overcome all. When Abraham was 100 and Sarah 90, God promised them a son. At such advanced age, their very bodies were the dark clouds, a despair. However, they looked to the rainbow of the covenant and although it was difficult to believe, they looked to God giving thanks to Him; As a result, there was the miracle of God and they had a son, his name was Isaac. We live through this world with various dangers, great and little. Being human, to us, the future is absolutely unfathomable. As such, we are always faced with anxiety, fear and storms of life. Even so, we must see the rainbow of the blood of Jesus Christ on the cross. That is the rainbow of the covenant. The sky may fall, the ground may shake, but the rainbow will remain. No matter how much the wind blows and the dark clouds cover the sky as the rain pours, there is the rainbow. There is the covenant. You should look up and look to the covenant with positive minds as hope and faith fills your heart; If so, you will be able to overcome your situation and just as your spirit has been made well, all things including health will fill your life even as the Holy Spirit fills you. However, if you look to the rain, the cloud, and the rain, forgetting the rainbow of the covenant as you become negative minded, even abandoning your faith at times, you will be destroyed. You may jump into the ark, but it is old and to no avail. Brothers and sisters, for us, we have the wondrous rainbow. It is the rainbow drawn with the blood of Christ. If you look to the rainbow, you will be victorious. 

-
