Sunday, May 7th, 2000
Title : Conditions for a Happy Family
Scripture Reading : Colossians 3:12-21


  The oasis of this world is our homes, where we can relax and rest comfortably. Yet, our lives are different. The devil brought strife, condemnation and destruction to the first home, Eden where Adam and Eve lived. Even today the devil doesn't stop stealing, killing, and destroying happiness in our homes.
  According to the latest statistics, over 30,000 commit suicide every year and most of them are over 50. In 1998 8,569 committed suicide, 6,200 men and 2,369 women. Compared to in 1997, suicide increased 42% and 2003 more deaths than ten years ago. It proves that homes are not always the oasis of our lives and the nest of happiness. The home that God wants us to have is the place where we can trust, depend on, forgive, love one another and be comforted and strengthened. However, in order to make such a home, it takes efforts. There are some conditions to make a happy home. When these conditions are fulfilled, happiness will come to our households.

  First, we have to believe in God the Father and Jesus and serve them. There are harmony and order in every creature. The true harmony and order of our lives come from serving God the Father and Jesus. When God created man in the beginning, He made man serve and live with God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Yet, the devil violated that order in Eden. For Adam and Eve tried to be like God. Likewise, the devil destroyed the order and harmony of the home in Eden that God had made. The present households are in the same situation, aren't they? If wives ignore the authority of their husbands, and children that of their parents to be equal with each other, our households will be mixed up. Therefore, there are harmony and orders in every creature and if we break them, we will never keep our homes spiritually happy, only with material. That's why in order to build happy families, we must turn back to the order that God originally made. Only when we have the order of serving God our Father and Jesus Christ, will we have happiness in our households.
  Moreover, we will have joy at the altar of the Word, the fullness of the Holy Spirit, and prayer. There should be joy in a household. While Jesus and His disciples were staying at a wedding banquet in Cana, the wine was gone. Jesus' mother told Him that they had no more wine and Jesus soon performed a miracle. There were six stone water jars used for ceremonial washing. Jesus told them to fill the jars with water. After they filled the jars, the Lord again told them to treat guests to the water. When they obeyed the Lord, water was changed to wine.
  Today, we are like stone water jars. If we repent of our sins, make ourselves clean, and fill us with the Word and the Holy Spirit, the Lord will make us overflow with the wine of joy through the Holy Spirit. When we are filled with the Word and the Holy Spirit, the Lord will fill us with the wine of joy. When we have joy, prayer and thanks giving without ceasing, we will have happy homes. If our families resent, hate and complain to one another, there will be no happiness but bronze snakes that will bring argument and strife to our homes.
  Psalm 16:11 says, "You have made known to me the path of life; You will fill me with joy in Your presence, with eternal pleasure at Your right hand."
  Romans 14:17 also says, "For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness, peace and joy in the Holy Spirit,---" Hence, there should be joy in our households. Husbands, wives and children should always have joy in their hearts. Then our families will be happy. If we resent, hate and feel gloomy, there will be no happiness in our households. When we heartily repent and are filled with the Word and the Holy Spirit, God will change something terrible into the wine of joy.

  Secondly, to make our homes happy, we should have clear regulations in our households. If sins and corruption break into our homes, there will be no happiness. Immorality will bring misery. If a husband, a wife and their child are ungodly, there will be no happiness in their home. These days, we see that American society and schools are not in good situations, because they have rejected the Lord's Prayer and the Ten Commandments. Schools have serious problems due to drugs, sex, violence, and random shootings. On June 17th, 1963, in the time of President Kennedy, most of the public high schools proclaimed that they wouldn't teach the Bible. Since then, there have been no high schools where they teach the Bible except Georgia State High School.
  According to the research by an education doctor, David Baton, public schools abolished the prayer time they had had before class, saying, "Almighty God, we confess that we depend on You. Please, bless us. Bless our parents, teachers and nation." They surely prayed this prayer and began classes. However, the Unbelievers' Association did away with that. As a result, the rate of juveniles' college entrances greatly decreased and their sexual relations before marriage prevailed. Drugs, random shootings, and leaving home increased to 13 times from 8 times as much. Recently, many students were killed by random shootings in American schools. Those incidents impacted upon the American press. Nowadays, the Christian National Conference organized for teaching the Bible in public schools is having a campaign for restoring Bible teaching throughout all the 50 states of America. Under its influence, they are teaching the Bible at about 100 schools in 29 states now. Yet, there are many who have severe oppositions to Bible teaching, but in order to restore the morals and life of American juveniles who are getting worse, Christians are making every effort to have the Bible taught in public schools. Thus, without teaching the Lord's Prayer and the Ten Commandments, the American public schools became like a wilderness. Yet, because of the juveniles who disregard the authority of their parents and their homes, American households are now confused. For the education of your children, the Lord's Prayer and the Ten Commandments are necessary. In order to build morality at home, we have to make clear goals for the lives of our children.
  Today, we don't know exactly which way we should follow in this world. Because this world is filled with material temptations and secularity. Adults and children should have some plain standard of morals and ethics to have happy homes. If Fathers, mothers, and children lead their own lives for secularity, they will have no happiness. That kind of home is just like the place where people get together. Once I was surprised when I visited a widow, one of my saints, who raised a son and a daughter. She put the paper of the Ten Commandments in front of her children's beds so that they could read them when they got up in the morning and before they fell asleep. Then unfortunately she died before they grew up. They became orphans. Yet, I saw them lead upright, good and sincere lives, attend my church and serve God so well. If we show our children the way to go when they are young, they will never leave the way after they are grown up. We have to show them the way to go when young. Though the widow died, she showed her children the upright way for their lives.
  Psalm 127:3 reads, "Sons are a heritage from the Lord, children a reward from him." Since our children are a heritage from the Lord, we have to raise them well.
  Proverbs 3:5-6 also reads, "Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding; in all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make your paths straight." We have to instruct our children in the way that they will worship, serve and fear God in everything.
  Ephesians 6:4 says, "Fathers, do not exasperate your children; instead, bring them up in the training and instruction of the Lord." We should not get angry, lash out nor be excited, but show our children the way that they will obey the Lord's will. If We have our children memorize the Lord's Prayer and the Ten Commandments, they will guide the children in their lives. They will have relationships with God through the Lord's Prayer and clearly see the regulations of life in this chaotic world. In order to overcome endless physical pleasure and corruption in the ungodly and secular culture of this world, not only children but also adults should keep in mind the Ten Commandments. We have to memorize the Ten Commandments every day. We should make resolutions to lead our lives according to the Ten Commandments. Then we won't stumble in our lives.
  Psalm 119:9 writes, "How can a young man keep his way pure? By living according to Your word."
  It is also written in 1Corinthians 6:19-20, "Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have received from God? You are not your own; you were bought at a price. Therefore honor God with your body."
  Ephesians 4:24 says, "--- and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness." All these lives come from the Lord's Prayer and the Ten Commandments.

  Thirdly, we can have happy households when we remove extreme individualism and selfishness, comfort and encourage one another. We really need to understand our family members. If we live wayward lives, our families will be separated. We have to try to understand and sympathize with our spouses. It doesn't work naturally so we must make efforts. We have to think in the situation of our spouses and should not insist only on our own opinions.
  Today, the world is selfish and the governments do selfish politics, so people are getting more individual and selfish. Husbands, wives and children think about their own profit and happiness. In this situation, we won't be able to have happy homes. It is necessary to understand one another in our households. According to the statistics last year, Seoul has ten million population and more than 200 people among them marry a day and 61 couples are divorced a day. Hence, one third of married couples are divorced. The statistics say that divorced couples' life span will be shorter between eight and ten years. It proves that they are shocked so much when divorced. In Korea, the rate of divorce is greatest to men in their early forties and women in their late thirties. It's caused by 60% discord through insincerity and irresponsibility and by 25% economic problems. The basic cause of conflict between married couples lies in no conversation. Specialists say that there are many women who complain that their husbands don't listen to them. That's why if we lead our lives, thinking about only ourselves, our own happiness, insisting on our opinions and disregarding others without talking, there will be no happiness in our households.
  We should sympathize with and have pity on one another. We should not see our family members by law. By law, we find many mistakes and wrongs in our husbands, wives, parents and children. There is no one perfect in this world before the law of God. We should accept our family members with pity and mercy without the law, but if we measure them with the law, all of them will be found imperfect and we will find fault and argue with them. We have to forgive our family members whole-heartedly. Forgiveness needs our resolution. Though it is very difficult to forgive, when we forgive, our homes will be happy. Judgment will never make our families happy. Those who are judged will judge us back, won't they? Then they will argue and fight with each other.
  Colossians 3:13 says, "Bear with each other and forgive whatever grievances you may have against one another. Forgive as the Lord forgave you." The Lord forgave us, even having His body torn and shedding His blood on the cross. So we should forgive one another even weeping and in particular our family members.
  Luke 11:4 tells us, "Forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone who sins against us. And lead us not into temptation." Therefore, without forgiveness, there'll be no real reconciliation and love. Moreover, we should try to love our family members. When we love, we should serve them. Love without serving is not true. We should not ask them to love us only. When we love, we need to take pains and sacrifice ourselves. When we are willing to love with such sacrifice, we can keep our homes happy.
  Ephesians 5:22-25 reads, "Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, His body, of which He is the Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave Himself up for her." If wives are to submit to their husbands, they need to sacrifice themselves. Though they don't like to do this, they have to make an effort to sacrifice themselves and submit their husbands to keep their homes in order. Though wives are much more intelligent than their husbands, they should submit to their husbands for the order of their households. If wives disregard husbands and their dignities, children won't think of their fathers as fathers. If children don't acknowledge the dignity of their fathers, their homes will be destroyed. Because children don't admit the dignity of their mothers by nature. Though mothers are to whip their children, they are not afraid of their mothers but of their fathers. I still remember that I was afraid of my father but when my mother was going to blame me, I ran away and laughed at her, for I didn't accept her dignity. Since mother is the symbol of mercy, she can't keep her dignity. Therefore, fathers should let mothers have dignity.
  Ephesians 5:25 reads, "Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave Himself up for her." when husbands love their wives, children will love their mothers. When husbands are impolite, disregard and say bad words to their wives, children won't respect their mothers. Then mothers will lose their roles. That's why husbands should love their wives. In the sight of their children, they should hug their wives and tell them, "I love you." then the children will regard their mothers as precious. In order to do that, we need sacrifice and efforts. If we just depend on our emotions, it won't work well. For our feelings are not always obedient and loving. Yet, we should make efforts. When we keep trying, we will receive its fruit. If not, we won't. Besides, we have to thank God a lot for our spouses. Since it says, "He who sacrifices thank offerings honors me, and he prepares the way so that I may show him the salvation of God." we should not only thank God for good things but also for bad husbands. We should also thank God for nagging wives and prodigal children. We have to give a great deal of thanks to God. We must not complain. The more trouble our spouses may bring us, the more we should give thanks. Then God will reveal His power. Without thanks, we will not see God's miracle. No matter what trials and affliction we may face, we should not resent and complain but thank God for everything. If we thank God for dark and distressing situations, He will grant us bright and good days.
  Ephesians 5:20 says, "-- always giving thanks to God the Father for everything, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ."

  Fourthly, we should have home cell services and time to talk with our family members. It will not be easy for the whole family to gather to have home cell services due to busy schedules. However, if we get together with those who can pray and worship God, the Lord will come to us as He says, "If there are two or three in My name, I will be in the midst of them." If the Lord comes, will He come without anything? He will surely bring us blessings.
  Psalm 128:1 reads, "Blessed are all who fear the Lord, who walk in His ways." That is, if we gather, worship Jehovah, pray, meditate on and remember Him, He will bless us.
  Matthew 6:33 also reads, "But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well." If we gather, think about His kingdom and His righteousness, and pray for them, the Lord will answer our prayers and bless us. If we first worship the Lord and then tell Him all our needs, He will bless us.
  Matthew 18:19-20 writes, "Again, I tell you that if two of you on earth agree about anything you ask for, it will be done for you by my Father in heaven. For where two or three come together in My name, there am I with them." The Lord really wishes us to get together. He says, "If two or three come together in My name and pray, I will hear you." We should not think that we can believe in Jesus and lead our Christian lives alone. Since when two or three come together and pray God will be with us and hear us, we must gather and pray to receive answers from God. The greatest common point for a happy family is the unity of faith. If we gather, read the Word, pray, and worship God together, He will be with us always. Furthermore, if possible, we should try to have time to talk together. Home cell services bring us good opportunities to converse with one another. For through talking, we can solve problems and have peace.
  Luke 6:37 says, "Do not judge, and you will not be judged. Do not condemn, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven." While talking, we must not laugh at nor blame others. If we say, "Don't be ridiculous. It doesn't make sense." there will be no conversation but only quarrel. So we must not rebuke or find fault with others.
  We read in Philippians 2:3, "Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider others better than yourselves."
  We also read in 1 Peter 4:8. "Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins." Owing to the lack of conversation between parents and children, today many children are wandering out of their homes. In a monthly magazine, "Father and Home" its inquiry asking, "What kind of father do you like?" says that 90.7% middle school students like such fathers as friends. They wish to have fathers with whom they can converse, play and talk like with their friends. If fathers had become friends for their children, today there wouldn't be youths who make so much trouble in the society.
  Last week I went to Japan, where a terrible incident took place. A good student, who had good credits and character on his way to school, struck a 60-year old man on the head knocking him out and killed him by stabbing forty parts of his body with a dagger. At the police station when he was asked why he murdered the man, he answered that he wanted to know what killing was like. When he was asked again why he killed an old man instead of a youth, he said that a youth had much longer to live than an old man. Why did he do that? He was young when his parents were divorced. His father was indifferent to him and he became worse and worse. Though he had a good mind and studied well, he did such a horrible thing! There occurred another incident in Japan.
  A 17-year old man hijacked a bus and threatened its driver with a dagger to drive hundreds of miles away, and then he stabbed a woman dead and pierced many other women. At last he was seized two days later. Why was that kind of juvenile delinquency committed? Because they were raised in desolate homes that had no conversation, they had enmity against the society. We should not ignore them, for when we raise our children without talking with them, they may have these types of problems. Parents have to be friends to their children so they can talk with us freely.
  I once saw an article titled "How to Talk Between Married Couples" written in the Munhwa Daily Newspaper in September, 1999. It says that a person's problem will be solved when we think it is our problem and try to solve it together and our homes will be getting warm. We should not criticize others for past faults but rather discuss our present problems with our family members. Though we have different opinions, we should not retort but try to listen to others with patience. Then we will feel warm-hearted from our families. We have to take time to talk comfortably. If we are in a hurry to talk due to little time, it won't work well. We should talk with enough time. While conversing, we should think positively that problems can be solved. The article gave us that advice. If we gather with our family members, we have to give compliments and thanks to one another to have peaceful households. True compliments and encouragement among children, married couples, and people will be a wonder drug to make our lives pleasant. Do you know what husbands want to hear most? It is, "You are the best one!" Wives, you should not consider your husbands as money givers, but regard them as kings with smiles and compliments, then you will be treated as queens automatically. You should grasp your husbands'desires wisely, have the same hobby with them, and prefer your families-in-law than your mothers' families. If you speak of your mothers' families often, your husbands will be estranged. Though you don't like it, you have to take the matters of your husbands' families seriously and take care of them.
  There was a famous poet in Korea. His wife took care of only her mother's family by giving them all the money he earned. Finally he was disappointed, sprinkled gasoline all over his body and set fire to himself and died. It was too bad as he was a great poet. Husbands, do you know what your wives want to hear every day? It is, "I love you only." The money that husbands give their wives is the measure of their husbands' love. Unless husbands give their wives money, they don't think that their husbands love them. When husbands give their wives money, they think that their husbands love them. For entrusting money means they trust their wives. If husbands trust, support their wives and have common goals, their wives will be pleased. Likewise, husbands and wives have to give compliments and thanks to each other. We should keep on giving compliments.

  Lastly, for a happy home, we should pray to God. When He blesses us, we will have happy homes.
  It is said in 1 Thessalonians 5:16-18, "Be joyful always; pray continually; give thanks in all circumstances, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus." We should always pray that God may give us pleasant households, where we can pray and give thanks to Him at all times. Recently in Korea we restored the happiness index that we had before IMF. The happiness index is 65%. It is said that the most important factor of happiness is harmony in households. The next factors are health and positive thinking. Then the rate of social success including relationships with friends and others is just 2.2%. That's why harmony in the home is the absolute condition for happiness. Without harmony, we won't be happy no matter how successful we may be in society. Because it makes just 2.2% of us happy.
  If we have happy families, we will be prosperous in everything and our households will be lively and we'll be powerful in our lives. Unless we have joy and happiness in home, we won't have them at any other places. Most youths who make trouble in society are from unhappy households. Therefore, we must make strong resolutions and efforts to make our households happy. Then we and our families will be happy, so we will have meaningful and valuable lives. The kingdom of heaven will be established in our homes.

-Prayer-
  Dear God our Father who is almighty and holy! In the week of the home, please help us have happy households. Our homes will never have happiness automatically as they are. Just as a gardener takes care of the garden and prepares flowers to bloom, so we know that we can have happy households by making efforts without ceasing between married couples and between parents and children. Please, have mercy on us and help us have homes with happiness and harmony while living on this earth. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
