Sunday, April 25th, 2004
Scripture Reading: Luke 4:25-3

Faith and Obedience

Today, I want to share the message titled, 
"Faith and Obedience". God destroyed 
the Israelites in the desert whom He had 
liberated and led out of Egypt because of 
their continuous unbelief and disobedience.
Collective unbelief and disobedience made 
God angry at Kadesh-Barnea, which was 
on the border of Canaan, the land 
overflowing with milk and honey. 
After twelve spies explored the land 
of Canaan for 40 days and 40 nights, 
ten of them brought a negative report, 
and made the Israelites afraid and uneasy. 
The ten spies did not have God 
in their hearts. They said what they 
had seen, heard, and observed with their 
human sight. They had no faith in God
and no obedience to Him. Because of 
their negative report, all the Israelites cried 
and wailed all night, and they insisted that 
they should elect a new leader and go back 
to Egypt. They had collective rebellion, 
unbelief, and disobedience against God.
As a result, God was enraged, caused 
them to wander in the desert for 40 years, 
and destroyed them. It is disobedience 
and unbelief that God detests the most.
When our Lord Jesus preached the Word
in the synagogue of His hometown, 
Nazareth, He also rebuked the people 
because of their unbelief and disobedience.
He gave them the message by using 
examples from the Old Testament. 
In the time of Elijah, there was a severe 
famine all over the land of Israel 
for three and a half years. Since many 
men starved to death, there were many 
widows in Israel. However, the widows 
didn't believe in God or obey Him. 
Therefore, God didn't help them. 
There was a widow in Zarephath 
in the region of Sidon, where the gentiles 
worshipped Baal. Nevertheless, this widow
feared, trusted, and obeyed God.
Although she was a gentile, God sent 
Elijah to her. When Elijah met her,
she was gathering sticks. He said, 
"Go quickly, make bread, and bring it 
to me with a little water in a jar." 
Then the widow said, "I have only 
a handful of flour in a jar and a little oil 
in a jug. I am gathering a few sticks 
to take home and make a meal for myself 
and my son, that we may eat it--and die." 
Elijah said to her, "Don't be afraid. 
Go home and do as you have said. 
But first make a small cake of bread 
for me from what you have and bring it 
to me with a little water in a jar. 
Then the jar of flour will not be used up 
and the jug of oil will not run dry 
until the day the LORD gives rain 
on the land." The widow in Zarephath
trusted what Elijah said. She and her son
were very hungry, however, she made 
bread and gave it to Elijah out of faith 
and obedience. After Elijah received 
the bread and water, God blessed her 
and her family. So the jar of flour was 
not used up and the jug of oil did not 
run dry, during the three and a half year 
period without rain. God's miracle was 
performed. The Lord meets those who 
have faith and obedience. In the time
of Elisha, there were many lepers in Israel.
None of them believed that God would 
heal them. They didn't put faith in God.
Naaman was commander of the army 
of Syria, the enemy of Israel. He was 
a valiant soldier, but he had leprosy. 
Now there was a young girl taken captive 
from Israel, and she served Naaman's wife.
She said to her mistress, "If only my master 
would see the prophet, Elisha who is 
in Israel! If Elisha prays for him, he will
be cured of his leprosy." As it is said, 
"Faith comes from hearing the message, 
and the message is from the word 
of Christ." Hearing from this young girl,
Naaman went to the king of Israel.
Then the king tore his robes and said, 
"Am I God? Can I kill and bring back 
to life? See how he is trying to pick 
a quarrel with me!" Then Elisha said, 
"Send him to me." So Naaman went 
with his horses and chariots and stopped 
at the door of Elisha's house. Elisha sent
a messenger to say to him, "Go, wash 
yourself seven times in the Jordan."  
But Naaman went away angry and said, 
"I thought that he would surely come out 
to me and stand and call on the name 
of the LORD his God, wave his hand 
over the spot and cure me of my leprosy.
Should I wash myself in the Jordan?
Are not Abana and Pharpar, the rivers of 
Damascus, better than any of the waters 
of Israel? Couldn't I wash in them and 
be cleansed?" So he turned and went off 
in a rage. Naaman's servants went to him 
and said, "My father, if the prophet had 
told you to do some great thing, would 
you not have done it? How much more, 
then, when he tells you, `Wash and be 
cleansed'!" So he went down and dipped 
himself in the Jordan seven times, 
as the man of God had told him, and 
his flesh was restored and became clean 
like that of a young boy. The Lord said
this at the synagogue in Nazareth.
The widow in Zarephath was a gentile
in Sidon, and Naaman was commander 
of Syria, the enemy country of Israel. 
That means that God will not even help 
His people unless they trust and obey Him. 
Even if the gentiles honor, trust, and 
obey God, He will send His messenger,
and take care of them. Psalm 81:10-11 
says, "I am the LORD your God, who 
brought you up out of Egypt. Open wide 
your mouth and I will fill it. But my people 
would not listen to me; Israel would not 
submit to me." If Israel would not listen 
to God, they couldn't obey Him. If they
would not submit to God, they could not
trust Him. God does not change. The God
who created heaven, earth, and everything
in them still wants to meet our needs 
with His almightiness. He said, "Open 
wide your mouth and I will fill it." 
However, since today those who believe 
in the Lord don't listen to His Word 
and put faith in it, He does not appear 
to them. Whenever you say, "I believe 
in Jesus. I'm baptized. I attend the church." 
and nothing else, He can't work for you. 
God does not want formality and ritual 
but obedience and faith from your hearts. 
If you have obedience and faith, even today, 
God will perform miracles and wonders 
for you. No matter how grand our religious 
ritual may be, if there is no obedience 
and faith, there will be no relationship 
between God and us. The reason why 
God does not help us is not because 
His hand is short and His ear is deaf, 
but because we have disobedience 
and unbelief, and He can not work in us. 
Look at the story of Martha and Mary 
in the New Testament. Their brother, 
Lazarus died. They were bereaved 
of their parents early, and depended 
on their brother. However, he died 
of sickness, and Jesus came four days
after he was buried. Then, Martha said
to Jesus, "If you had been here, my brother 
would not have died. Now it has been 
four days since he died, so we have 
no hope." Martha and Mary were 
disappointed. Jesus is the same yesterday,
today, and forever. However, Martha
accepted Jesus four days before, 
but didn't accept Him now. That was 
a big problem. She thought that if Jesus 
had been with them, her brother would 
have not died, but He came four days 
after her brother was buried. 
Listen to Jesus in John 11:21-26, "Lord,
Martha said to Jesus, 'if you had been 
here, my brother would not have died.' 
Jesus said to her, 'Your brother will 
rise again.' Martha answered, 'I know 
he will rise again in the resurrection 
at the last day.' Jesus said to her, 'I am 
the resurrection and the life. He who 
believes in me will live, even though 
he dies; and whoever lives and believes 
in me will never die. Do you believe this?'"
Jesus strongly said, "Your brother will 
rise again." However, Martha said, "I know
He will rise again in the resurrection 
at the last day." Then, Jesus said, "I'm
the resurrection and the life. He who 
believes in me will live, even though 
he dies; and whoever lives and believes 
in me will never die. Do you believe this?"
Martha said, "I believe you are Jesus 
Christ and the Savior." Jesus said, "I'm
the living God and I can give life to 
your brother now." Yet, Martha said, "He'll 
rise in the resurrection at the last day."
Jesus said, "I'm the resurrection." 
Martha said, "I believe that you are 
the Savior." Mary and Martha didn't
believe that Jesus Christ could work 
for them right away. Jesus took Martha
and Mary to the tomb, and wept there.
Jesus knew that Lazarus would rise, but
why did He cry? He cried because of
the unbelief and disobedience of Martha
and Mary. If they had believed and obeyed
the Lord, they would not have feared,
been dismayed, frustrated, or disappointed.
Even though the Lord was living, 
and they were with Him, they didn't 
believe and obey him. Seeing that they 
were burdened and sad with trouble, 
the Lord was so distressed that he wept
for them. The Lord took Martha and Mary 
to the tomb, and said to Martha, "Take 
away the stone." Martha, the sister 
of the dead man, said, "But Lord, 
by this time there is a bad odor, 
for he has been there four days." 
She disobeyed the Lord. He didn't know 
that Martha and Mary who He had 
loved and disciplined would disobey Him 
with their doubt. When Jesus took them 
to the tomb of Lazarus, and told them 
to take away the stone so that He could 
give life to him, Martha and Mary 
disobeyed Him. They said, "It has
been four days since our brother died,
and there is a bad odor. What is the use
of taking away the stone? We will be 
shameful and people will blame us. 
We will not move the stone away. 
Those who believed and loved Jesus Christ
resisted and disobeyed His command
when they faced a crisis. They didn't 
believe that their brother would rise again.
Then Jesus was angry and rebuked them.
He said, "Did I not tell you that if you 
believed, you would see the glory of God?"
There were many Jews who didn't trust
Jesus around them. "Didn't I not tell you 
that if you believed, you would see 
the glory of God? If you don't obey and
believe, you will not see the glory of God."
Martha and Mary were so sorry 
for making Jesus angry that they 
changed their minds, and repented. 
Even if we are rebuked by the Lord 
because we don't trust and obey Him,
if we repent, He'll forgive us. For it is 
said, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven 
is at hand." Since we are humankind, 
we may disobey God without faith. 
However, when the Lord rebukes us, 
we must repent. If not, His glory will 
go away. You may ask, "Why doesn't 
the glory of God appear in the church 
today? Why doesn't it appear in my life?" 
Then the Lord will say, "Repent of your 
disobedience and unbelief. If you obey 
and believe, the glory of God will appear 
to you." Martha and Mary changed 
their minds to believe. Even if you haven't 
obeyed and believed up to this point, 
but now by listening to the Word of God
you have changed your mind, He will 
accept you. Martha and Mary changed 
their minds, and were going to take 
away the stone. The stone was so big 
that animals couldn't enter and harm 
the dead body. Martha and Mary 
were going to take away the stone. 
Faith without action is dead. If they 
believed, they had to obey and act. 
The stone was not to be moved by Jesus
or by their neighbors, but by themselves. 
The Lord will do what we can't do, 
but faith without action is dead. 
If they obey and take away the stone, 
the Lord will perform a miracle. If you 
want to be saved, you must come 
to church. If you want to be blessed, 
you should give your tithe to the Lord. 
If you want to be healed, you have to 
serve God and pray to Him. We have 
to do what we can do. Without action, 
faith is dead. The Lord wants to see 
your faith. Invisible faith is not real faith. 
Whether it is big or little, the Lord 
wants to see your faith by action.
In the Bible, the Lord always said,
"It will be done according to your faith."
Visible faith is real faith. Invisible faith
is not real faith. The land that is under
the water is no longer called the land.
The land above the water is the real land.
Faith that is not seen is not real faith.
Faith that is seen is real faith. Likewise, 
the Lord told Martha and Mary to put 
their faith into practice. So He said, 
"Believe and obey." As soon as the stone
was taken away, a terrible odor came out 
of the tomb. Then, Jesus said toward 
the tomb, "Lazarus, come out!" All the 
people there watched, being nervous. 
So did Martha and Mary. They were all 
looking into the tomb, wondering what 
would happen. Before long, something 
white began to move, and Lazarus walked
out in grave clothes. Jesus is the same 
yesterday, today, and forever. The miracle 
of God was performed! If we believe 
and obey, even today we will experience 
a miracle. A long time ago, I read a book 
that was written about an interesting 
and marvelous testimony of God. 
Mr. Poglio, the son of a family who 
immigrated to America from Italy 
wrote the miracle of God that they had 
experienced. Since the father who had 
seven in his family was a laborer 
of a railroad company, he was poor. 
The Italians enjoyed spaghetti. One day, 
the family had a little spaghetti; only 
enough for one person, but the husband 
brought four friends home for dinner. 
He said to his wife, "Honey, I have 
brought four close friends, so please, make
enough spaghetti. We worked so hard 
all day that we are very hungry now." 
The wife was really in trouble, because 
they had very little spaghetti even 
for one person. The husband was 
so awful that if there was no spaghetti
he would be very angry and blame 
his wife terribly. He didn't believe 
in Jesus, but his wife was a very faithful
Christian filled with the Holy Spirit.
As soon as she heard what her husband
said, she ran into the room and brought
out a Bible. She put it on her head,
and the little bit of spaghetti on it, 
and began to pray, "Lord, we have 
just a little spaghetti only enough 
for one person. My husband brought 
four friends. How can all of us 
including our family members eat 
this little bit of spaghetti? However, 
I believe, Jesus Christ is the same 
yesterday, today, and forever. I have 
obeyed You, given my tithe to You, 
and have been to church faithfully. 
When we face a crisis, You are with us, 
aren't You? Lord, now I pray with Your 
Word and spaghetti. Please, perform 
a miracle now." Then, in the sight 
of the son, she put the very little bit 
of spaghetti into the water that was 
boiling. Singing and praising the Lord, 
she put eleven bowls on the table for 
her family members and her husband's 
friends. Singing and praising the Lord, 
she stirred the water in the kettle, 
and scooped out spaghetti into the bowls. 
The son was very surprised to see 
that his mother scooped spaghetti out
into one bowl and then another again 
and again until all the bowls were filled, 
and all the people there were full
that evening. Even the next day the family 
enjoyed the spaghetti! The son who saw
the miracle wrote a book titled "Hey God",
in which he confessed that the simple 
faith of his mother gave him great faith, 
and changed his life greatly. It was not 
a story from 2,000 years ago, but it 
happened recently. That's why Jesus 
Christ is the same yesterday, today, 
and forever. If we don't have unbelief 
and disobedience, but truly believe and 
obey, even today, the glory of God will 
appear to us. That's why Jesus invites us 
in Matthew 11:28-30, "Come to me, 
all you who are weary and burdened, 
and I will give you rest. Take my yoke 
upon you and learn from me, for I am 
gentle and humble in heart, and you will 
find rest for your souls. For my yoke is 
easy and my burden is light." When He 
said the Word, He was out in the field
with His disciples. A cow was plowing
the field. There was a yoke on the cow,
and its calf was following the cow.
When a farmer hit the cow, it began 
to plow the field very hard. However,
its calf was not working hard. All he 
had to do was follow its mother, for 
he was under the yoke of its mother.
The calf thought, "I'm very comfortable,
but why does my mom work so hard?"
The yoke was tied around the cow, 
and the calf only had to follow the cow. 
Looking at them, Jesus said, "Come to me, 
all you who are weary and burdened, 
and I will give you rest. Take my yoke 
upon you. If you are under my yoke,
you will live your life very easily and
comfortably." The Lord said that He 
would be burdened and work for us.
If He makes us rest, He has to be 
burdened and work for us. If we are
burdened and work, how can we rest?
Jeremiah 33:2-3 says, "This is what 
the LORD says, he who made the earth, 
the LORD who formed it and established it
- the LORD is his name: `Call to me 
and I will answer you and tell you great 
and unsearchable things you do not know.'" 
He tells us, "You must not be burdened,
for it is mine. All you have to do is call
to me and trust me." Matthew 6:33 says, 
"But seek first his kingdom and his 
righteousness, and all these things will 
be given to you as well." There is a poem
written by Songgang Jungcheol, which 
says, "Please, give me the bundles that 
the old man is carrying, for I'm so young 
that I can carry it very easily. That man 
looks so miserable because he is old and 
carries a heavy bundle." The young man
in this poem felt so sorry to see 
an old man carrying a heavy bundle,
that he wanted to carry the bundle 
for him and make him comfortable .
Jesus said this same thing. Seeing that 
people have trouble with heavy burdens, 
Jesus said, "Come to me, all you who 
are weary and burdened." He invites us 
to live easily and comfortably. He says, 
"Are you heavily burdened with sin, 
the world, the devil, sickness, working 
for a living, your life, and death?
Do not be burdened with them. I will.
I will take the yoke for you. I have taken
the yoke of your burden on the Cross.
Believe, obey, and come under me, 
and you will be able to live in peace." 
What a tremendous invitation it is!
There was a boy who was very poor
but faithful to God in giving Him his tithes.
Believing that sincerity and faith would
bring him success in his life, he fought
against poverty. As a result, at 30,
he established a company, "Mobile Launch 
Service", and developed a world famous 
doughnut franchise. He is Rogenburg,
the founder of "Dunkin Donuts". 
Wherever we go in the world, we can see 
Dunkin Donut stores. At his 72nd birthday 
party, he said, "I was raised in poor 
circumstances and was not educated. 
However, God always bore my burden. 
I believe that success does not depend 
on our knowledge, but on our attitude." 
He was poor and uneducated, but he 
always cast his burden on the Lord. 
Since the Lord bore his burden and helped 
him, He became a great businessman. 
He said, "Knowledge didn't make him 
successful but his attitude did." 
What attitude? He said, "His attitude of 
belief and obedience made him successful."
Jesus said, "Take my yoke upon you 
and learn from me, for I am gentle and 
humble in heart." So in order to take His
yoke upon us, we need two things. 
We have to be gentle and humble.
Gentleness is the character that is tamed
well, warm, and mild. You know, livestock
are very mild animals. Since they are 
tamed by people, animals such as dogs, 
cows, and horses are very mild. Yet, 
the fierce animals such as lions, tigers, 
foxes, and wolves are not tamed by people. 
To be gentle is to be tamed and obedient.
Hebrews 3:18 says, "And to whom did 
God swear that they would never enter 
his rest if not to those who disobeyed?" 
Unless we are gentle, we won't be able
to be helped by God. Hebrews 5:8-9 also
says, "Although he was a son, he learned 
obedience from what he suffered and, 
once made perfect, he became the source 
of eternal salvation for all who obey him." 
Psalm 37:11 says, "But the meek will 
inherit the land and enjoy great peace."
Today, why should we go through 
many trials and hardships while believing 
in Jesus? Since God wants us to be 
broken and obedient, He tests us. 
Even Jesus, the Son of God, testified to 
obedience through sufferings. Unless we 
obey God, He won't enable us to inherit 
the land. Therefore, God tests our 
obedience every circumstance and every 
moment. When we face trials, He is 
testing us to see if we'll follow and obey 
Him whether we live or die, succeed 
or fail, or if we will turn away from 
the Him because the trials are too hard. 
In order to take His yoke upon us, 
we have to obey Him. We should follow 
Him with a gentle heart. John Karlvin said, 
"Faith is only to follow, with our eyes 
closed and our ears opened." God wants us 
to submit ourselves to Him completely. 
We must not look around at our 
circumstances, but close our eyes,
and only follow as we hear. Even when
we reach the cliff, if the Lord tells us
to go, we must obey Him. When I was
pastoring in Sodaemun a long time ago,
there was a nice, fat U.S. air force man
named Sergeant Nickerson. He came to 
church and served the Lord very faithfully.
Once he was confined, because while he 
was flying in the air as an assistant pilot,
he said to the pilot, "If Jesus appeared 
outside, and told me to walk out, I'd go 
outside at once." Then the pilot thought
that he was so crazy that he was going 
to open the door of the plane and go out.
The pilot reported it to the main office 
quickly, and landed. As soon as they 
arrived at the airport, the assistant pilot 
was put in prison. At the court, he said,
"I strongly believe in Jesus." I said, 
"As Peter walked on the water, so would 
I walk out into the air now, if Jesus 
appeared and told me to. I'd obey Him."
I didn't say, "I'd walk out into the air 
by myself unless Jesus told me to."
As a result, he got out of the prison.
We must obey the Lord like him.
We can have strong faith only when we
close our eyes, and follow what we hear 
from the Lord. If He tells us to go,
we must go. If He tells us to stop,
we must stop. If He tells us to turn,
we must turn. Detreat Bon Half said,
"Faith is to obey the command of 
the Lord." If we have faith, we must 
obey the command of the Lord.
Mc Donald said, "Obedience is the key
to open all the doors." Jesus said, 
"He who is gentle in heart can take 
my yoke upon him, and so can he who 
is humble in heart." Those who are 
humble make themselves humble, and 
trust the Lord. It says in 1 Peter 5:5 and 7,
"God opposes the proud but gives grace 
to the humble." "Cast all your anxiety 
on him because he cares for you."
The proud will not trust God, but they 
try to live by their own might, means, 
and ways. The humble, however, trust 
the Lord. Hebrews 11:6 says, "Without faith 
it is impossible to please God, because 
anyone who comes to him must believe 
that he exists and that he rewards those 
who earnestly seek him." The humble 
believe God, but the proud don't. Once 
I read a story of an American climber 
named Jim Fitake, who conquered 
Mt. Everest. The American climbers who 
had trained hard to conquer Mt. Everest 
came together in Nepal. A Nepalese guide 
said, "If you really want to climb 
to the top, you must trust and follow me." 
Then, the climbers said, "He is uneducated
and very stupid. We have trained very 
hard for years to conquer this mountain. 
We are experts in climbing, and he is 
just a climbing guide. He tells us 
to trust and follow him. It is ridiculous!" 
They wouldn't listen to the guide. 
However, Jim answered, "I really want 
to climb up to the top. I will do my best 
to follow you." He trusted the guide 
with humble heart, followed him, 
and became the first American who 
conquered Mt. Everest! Since he was 
humble, he was able to trust and follow 
the guide. The proud didn't trust the guide, 
went their own way, and all of them failed. 
If we want to believe in the Lord, 
we need to be humble. The proud criticize, 
judge, and doubt the Lord. The humble 
continue to trust and follow the Lord 
to the end. In order to conquer Mt. Everest, 
we need to trust the guide and follow him. 
Then, we will see how important it is 
to trust and follow the Lord with 
a humble heart. The Lord says, "You can 
live easy and comfortable lives. However, 
if you try to live on your own, you will 
be burdened. Then you have to work
with sweat because of your burden. 
However, if you obey me, and entrust me 
with your burden, I will bear your burden. 
I will work for you. Then, you can just 
enjoy your life on my lap and on my back. 
What you have to do is come under me. 
The yoke is around my neck, not around 
yours. I'll carry your burden. I'll work.
You can live free lives. Live in grace."
There are two kinds of people: one 
who lives his life by his own effort, 
and the other who lives his life by 
the grace of the Lord. Those who live 
by their own efforts don't trust and obey 
the Lord. Those who live by grace trust, 
obey, entrust the Lord with everything, 
and follow Him. We live on this earth. 
However, some people have trouble under 
the burden of trying to live by themselves, 
and others live easy and comfortable lives, 
depending on the Lord, and enjoying 
His blessings. May you experience 
the glory of God with faith and obedience, 
and live your lives by His grace.
Shall we pray? Dear Almighty and 
Holy God our Father! People are 
all weary, burdened, and struggling.
Since Adam and Eve disobeyed God,
their descendants have been trying
to live by their own efforts and ways,
heavily burdened with trouble. However, 
Jesus came, bore all the burdens for us, 
and accomplished everything for us 
on the Cross. The Lord has borne 
all our burdens on the Cross, and now 
He wants us to come under His Cross 
with faith and obedience. Dear Father, 
please help us to believe and obey. 
Holy Spirit, please, help us to completely 
obey, believe, and depend on the Lord, 
so that we may live easy and comfortable 
lives. Help us not to live with struggling, 
but live by Your grace. 
In Jesus' name, we pray. Amen.

