Date: May 13, 2007, Sunday 2nd Service
Title: The Effort for a Happy Home

I would like to share a message titled, "The Effort for a Happy Home." Home is a place where parents and children of the same blood line have gathered together. Thus, home is intimate, warm, and loving more than any other gatherings. This home, nowadays, is being destroyed and divided too easily. Why is this? At the port of New York, a multitude of people, including the President and senators, lined up, waiting for someone. Finally, a fine looking warship arrived, and the sound of the marching band and the welcoming canon shots echoed loudly. But, from the ship, someone’s remain came out. The remain belonged neither to a great politician, nor to a general who accomplished great things in a war. As an ordinary citizen, because of a song he wrote, he had such an amazing reception like this. He was John Payne who wrote well known song, "Home, Sweet Home."  "An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain, oh, give me my lowly thatched cottage again; the birds singing gaily, that came at my call: give me them and that peace of mind, dearer than all. Home, home, sweet sweet home." He was a poet who wrote this song. In front of his remain, the President of United States spoke as the following: "He has taught us what the most precious thing on this earth is, what the most valuable thing is, while we live on this earth." What can this be? It is the sweet home; this is it. However, nowadays, home is too easily broken and divided. This is our sorrow and tragedy. What is a marriage? Today, people are inclined to think that the marriage is no more than the biological union. Animals find their partner to multiply, but people do not get married and become a couple only to multiply their offspring. The marriage of humanity is personally planned out by God. God said in Genesis 2:18, "The Lord God said, ‘It is not good that man should be alone; I will make him a helper comparable to him.’" For it was not good to see a man to be alone, living in solitude, He created his helping mate, to become one in spirit, soul, and body, to be an intimate companion, to be a friend; it is saying that, to have them live this life, the Lord created the marriage. He didn’t say that He created the marriage only to unite male and female to give birth to an offspring. Social critic John Ruskin said this: "The history of humanity is not the world history but the history of families. A standard of a nation is no higher than the standard of a family, and the survival of a nation is depended on the survival of a family." Aristotle said, "Family forms the founding cell of a nation." Because of many healthy and happy homes, a nation becomes healthy. A home is this important because it is the will of God. A person is married and forms a family, and he can praise and worship God through the harmony of his family. God said that it is not good for a man to live alone. He wants the couple to get married, live together in union, praise God, raise children, and give glory to God. Marriage is not simply sharing flesh; it is a relationship that shares each other’s bones. When humanity is formed, He didn’t just use the clay to form this couple. After forming a man, He took a bone from his side and created a woman. Being created with a bone has a significant meaning. Bones do not decay easily. It lasts long, long time. Therefore, the marriage relationship is not a relationship that breaks up going separate ways after getting together and getting together after breaking up to go separate ways, but it shows that marriage is a long prosperous relationship. It is saying, "While living on this earth, live together until death." Live together being fat, and live together being skinny. Why? Our bodies may become fat or skinny, but the bones remain the same. Marriage is sharing the bones; it’s not sharing the flesh; as the pieces of bones do not disappear, it is telling us to live together while living on this earth. Therefore, the marriage relationship is the relationship that does not disappear while living on this earth, the relationship that does not break up going separate ways; this is the marriage relationship given to us by God. However, because of various human rights issues, there is a lot of discussion on gender equality, or male chauvinism, but biblically, it tells symbolically that God took a rib and formed a woman; a rib is neither attached to the head nor attached to the end of a toe. If God took a bone from the head of man, woman would have been higher than man. If God took a bone from the heel of the man, woman would have been lowly to be trampled under the feet of man. However, a bone from the side means equality. Therefore, when God formed woman, He took a bone from the side of the man; this means that they were formed on the same level. For a rib is close to the heart, He said to live, having the same rights in love and in union. Galatians 3:28 says, "There is neither male nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus." However, in regard to establishing a home, the order of hierarchy is different. People in this world all have equal rights but it is not possible for everyone to be CEOs, the president, and managers. Although everyone has the equal rights, in our lives, there is the difference of position. In a home, the husband and wife have equal rights at the same level, but there is a hierarchy of position due to the task given to the husband and the wife. The Bible notes this as the relationship between the head and the body. "Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is head of the church; and He is the Savior of the body. Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything." This is not about the human rights. This is about the hierarchy of a home. The husband and wife are united to make a family, but since they both cannot be the leaders, the husband must pull in front and the wife must push behind; the husband works as a leader, and the wife as a follower; it is telling about this mutually cooperative relationship. If the husband loves his wife as he loves his own body and if the wife absolutely obeys the guidance and decisions of her husband which is the head, this married couple cannot but be happy. This is the biblical marital relationship. The biblical marital relationship is the relationship of love and obedience; it is not a relationship of violence. If she is in love, she will follow. When the head loves the body, taking care well of the body, the body will follow the head. When the husband loves his wife and takes care of her, his wife will follow, obey, and serve him well. Love will bring obedience. According to Ephesians 5:25, "Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself for her." Why do we give our lives to Jesus? Because Jesus loved us, He carried the cross instead of us; He loved us so much that He had His body torn and shed blood. Because there was Jesus’ absolute love, we obey and follow the commandments of Jesus without saying another word. Likewise, in a home, when the husband takes care of his wife with the absolute love, his wife will obey and follow her husband. We must know that this is the relationship of love and obedience, not of the violence and obedience. French philosopher H.A. Tan justified the marriage like this: "For one week after marriage, they observe one another, and for three months thereafter, they fall in love. Afterwards, they fight for three years. And later, they live for 30 years forgiving one another." There are 6 ways to preserve the marriage: one of them is love, and the remaining 5 is trust. After falling in love, we must live, trusting one another. Marriage is never the relationship of the husband, forcibly ruling over as a tyrant, enslaving his wife. We must know that it is the relationship of love and obedience, love and servanthood. Hatred brings rebellion. If the husband hates his wife, his wife would not love him, and would not follow the husband. She would rebel. Love and obedience have a close tie; much love brings much obedience; hatred brings rebellion. This is how it is. In Proverbs 10:12, "Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all sins." Proverbs 17:1 says, "Better is a dry morsel with quietness, than a house full of feasting with strife." For a healthy marriage, there is something we need to think about always. We must understand one another, and put our efforts to make others understand. We must try to make everything understandable. When two people who are from totally different background have gathered together, living under one roof, eating the same food, their hearts cannot always be in unison. They have different education, different background, and different mindset. Moreover, those who have intercultural marriage have different cultures and different languages, so it is very difficult to live together. Therefore, for the healthy marriage, to understand one another, they need to have a lot of conversations. Try not to overpower others, but continue to talk to one another. Talk with one another until both of you fall backward running out of things to say. Regardless of how talented the husband is, because he is so talented, he may say, "Follow me." If she does exactly what he has decided, for the wife who is not talented does not understand it, her heart will be afflicted. Though the husband is very talented, he must talk with his untalented wife, talking again and again until they have nothing else to talk about. The difference between Japanese and Korean people is that Japanese people discuss at length whenever they are about to do something. They discuss amongst themselves until there is nothing else to talk about and make a decision, but whenever Korean people get together, if there is a talented leader, he would say, "I have decided this and that, so follow me." And they make a decision like this and go forward with it. Thus later, we see that they have many conflicts and problems. In Romans 12:16, it says, "Be of the same mind toward one another. Do not set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble." And in Proverbs 15:4, it says, "A wholesome tongue is a tree of life, but perverseness in it breaks the spirit." It is important part of our lives to understand others and to put our efforts to make others understand. If there is no understanding, talk until there is understanding. And if it cannot be understood, next time, it is better to not do it. We must have understanding to go forward, holding our hands together. I watched TV some time ago that in a small town there was an announcement that there will be a race of couples running with their feet tied together; after this, one elderly couple already started to sleep with their feet tied together. If one needed to go to the restroom, others had to be dragged to the restroom, to the restroom. And when they were eating, they ate with their feet tied together; they went together to the kitchen; for a month, they went about here and there with their feet tied together; in an elementary school, going out to the field, they raced in a competition with their feet tied together, and naturally, they took the 1st place. It is because they lived with their feet tied together for a month. Because they have synchronized and trained this way, they were able to be good at it. Understanding and being compassionate are the same. If they continue to understand and go forth, binding their hearts as one unit, later they will be able to do everything easily without conflicts. Also, we must be compassionate to other’s feelings and have a concern for others. Ignorance inflicts biggest pain in people’s hearts. "What do I care whether you eat or not, sleep or not, hurt, are healthy, happy, or not. I am just living with you in a dormitory so I have no concern for you." Through this ignorance comes a deep wound in our hearts. We must be compassionate toward other’s sensitive feelings, have a deep concern, and try to inspire others. Man thrives when inspired. In times of joy, we rejoice together; in times of grief, we grieve together; in times of difficulties, we agonize together; in good times, we must be happy together; we need to do these things to inspire each other’s life. Why, when a person is visiting, wouldn’t he take some snacks or a bundle of flowers? If we visit taking nothing, people would not be touched, but if we take snacks or flowers, they will be touched. Moreover, when Westerners visit others, they take a bundle of flowers always. If they buy the flowers for them, the entire family smells the flowers and thanks them, and they make good comments saying how beautiful the flowers are. The person who brought this one bundle of flowers is touched and those who were visited are touched, and so, everyone can be compassionate toward one another and become one. Ignorance brings pain. It is imperative to encourage and give compliments a lot. The compliments can inspire a person deeply; how good this is! Even though he did a small thing, we must give compliments; and watching him doing a small thing, we should clap our hands in gladness; then he will be inspired. "They care about me." Thus, he will rejoice. When children are barely taking a step and begin to speak, they shout to receive attention. When the parents talk and do not listen to what they are saying, they throw things, shouting and creating a noise; this is done to show that they want attention. At the very young age, children want others to pay attention to them already. Adults are the same. They want attention. In a home, the wife wants her husband’s attention concerning her hard work and dedication; for the husband is caring for the family working hard and diligently, he wants his wife’s understanding and attention, looking for her compliments and thankfulness. Do not forget to be thankful and appreciative in small things of our ordinary lives. This becomes an enormous invigorating energy source, and it works as a lubricant in our lives. In 1 Peter 3:8, "All of you be of one mind, having compassion for one another." It is telling us to inspire and share one another’s hearts. In Proverbs 12:18, "There is one who speaks like the piercings of a sword, but the tongue of the wise promotes health." There is a person who criticizes and mocks others harshly making them bleed, like stabbing with a dagger, but there are also the lips and tongues that heal others with the same words. There are many who speak indiscriminately. There are those who point out other person’s faults right there in a meeting like baring the skin to scratch. This person creates a quarrel whenever he goes. However, there are tongues that comforts, encourages, and strengthens, like a healing medicine. Therefore, we must be compassionate toward our spouse to keep a good marriage. Husband, be compassionate toward your wife and inspire your wife. Also wife, be compassionate toward your husband, give compliments, and give thanks. I don’t know why people don’t give compliments. When a child receives a compliment, it will make him happy. It is told that even a whale dances when he receives a compliment. Thus, all the more, when a person receives a compliment, it encourages him greatly. We are so ungenerous in giving compliments. When we live a life full of compliments and thanksgiving, our home will be healthy and our home will be affluent. And in order for the married couples to live happily, it is good to suffer long no matter what. Do not make a list of restrictions. Winning a marriage quarrel is a loss. In this world, only in a marriage quarrel, winning is a loss. When the husband and wife fight, the husband must be ready to eat cold food from that day on. He must live with his wife’s negligence. Also the wife, after having a fight with her husband, her husband will not come home but start to wander around outside the home; the consequence of this is very bad. In a marriage quarrel, winning is a loss. In a marriage quarrel, losing is not a loss. There is nothing to lose. Therefore, for winning is a loss and losing is not a loss, it is good to suffer long no matter what. Proverbs 12:16 says, "A fool’s wrath is known at once, but a prudent man covers shame." Proverbs 19:11 says, "The discretion of a man makes him slow to anger, and his glory is to overlook a transgression." Do not uncover the faults of your spouse. No one is perfect. As there are nighttime and daytime in the cycle of a day that God created, can a person be perfect in all that he does and nothing he does be wrong? Therefore, the husband may have good qualities and bad qualities; the wife may also have good qualities and bad qualities; they should never point out bad qualities over and over again to cause pain. When we raise a chicken, if there is a small rash or there is a scar, other chickens would come and repeatedly peck it until it dies because its internal organs pop out. In a marriage, it is wrong to point out the faults, exposing each other’s weak points to inflict more pain. They must go on as if nothing is wrong. To forgive other’s faults is a great way to lead a healthy home. It is wrong to expose other’s fault over and over again. Moreover, wives have a very good memory. Husbands do not have a good memory so they tend to forget about the past, but wives have a good memory, that in an argument, they tell everything that happened 10 years ago. "You did this and that and this, 10 years ago." This makes anger burst in her husband’s heart. You must forget them. Forget the past, and do not expose the weak qualities; you may fight but do not hurt each other’s pride. If pride is hurt, then the untreatable pain will be inflicted. A fight is done by two people; so, two should talk; they should not include wife’s side of the family, should not include husband’s side of the family; they should never do this to hurt each other’s pride. Never, never expose the past that will hurt each other’s pride; to forgive each other’s fault is to lead the family to glory. It is wrong to think that our spouse is one of our properties. A wife is not a property of the husband. Also, a husband is not a property of the wife. They are the servants of God who were sent by God to live together. Therefore, it is wrong to think of our spouse as one of our properties and it is wrong to interfere excessively. And they must cooperate for the happiness of others. Because we must live together, we must not be ignorant about other’s happiness, and care only about our own happiness. No matter what, we must help doing our best to make others live happily, live joyously, and live successfully. The husband must sacrifice everything and help what he can to make his wife live successfully and happily, and the wife must help her husband. In the past, I traveled abroad a lot with Pastor John Hurston who worked with us for 30 years as a missionary to Korea ;it amazed me always that whenever he opened his bag, there was a letter from his wife. I thought, "They’ve lived together for so long, so what’s the letter for?" Always, when her husband traveled overseas, when he opened his bag, first thing he saw was the pleasant letter that said to return safely. And when he put on his clothes, putting his hand in a pocket, there was always a note written by his wife. I always smiled at the note that told him what to do. However, this sort of kindness helps to make each other happy; this is extremely helpful. In the time of the President Truman, Newbolt Morris who had an important position, was interrogated for the abuse of political power; coming before the congregational committee, he was very angry raising his voice because he was wrongfully accused, but as he put his hands in his pocket to pull out his handkerchief, instead of the handkerchief, he pulled out a note. He read the note and he laughed before the senators. So, the senators said, "What are you laughing at, in front of the congregational committee?" At this, he replied, "I have a habit of raising my voice whenever I am angry. And then I have a habit of taking off my clothes. My wife who knows about this wrote a letter and left it in my pocket. ‘Husband, do not take off your clothes inadvertently and raise your voice.’ This note was placed in my pocket, so I laughed seeing this." Therefore, the entire congregational committee laughed, and because of his good wife, he was acquitted by the congregational committee and the problem was resolved. We can live happily when we help out one another, covering up small faults. Concerning marriage, it is never easy for a man and a woman who have different personalities, background, education, and life experience, to live as a couple. Someone wrote a book that people from Mars and Mercury are living together on earth. Likewise, for two people who have different background, different mindset, different personalities, different hobbies, to live together, they should never live stubbornly and however it pleases them. To live, overcoming many hardships and difficulties, think about the love of Jesus Christ’s cross, and do your best to understand until the end. Through the love of Jesus, we must try to understand others, and then, try to be compassionate toward other’s feelings, always be inspiring, give compliments, encourage, and then, decide to love no matter what happens, and then suffer long. Not suffering long once, but twice, three times, four time, 100 times; suffering long is life. Concerning life, the life of a married couple is not always romantic. Marriage has only small portion of romance; after this, each one of them must live a long life understanding, being compassionate, loving, and suffering long. I bless you in the name of the Lord that because you have suffered long, you may establish a happy home and give glory to God. 

