¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡Always Pray and Do Not Give Up
					   

Then Jesus told his disciples a parable to show them that they should always pray and not give up. He said:¡°In a certain town there was a judge who neither feared God nor cared what people thought. And there was a widow in that town who kept coming to him with the plea, ¡®Grant me justice against my adversary.¡¯ ¡°For some time he refused. But finally he said to himself, ¡®Even though I don¡¯t fear God or care what people think, yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will see that she gets justice, so that she won¡¯t eventually come and attack me!¡¯ And the Lord said, ¡°Listen to what the unjust judge says. And will not God bring about justice for his chosen ones, who cry out to him day and night? Will he keep putting them off? I tell you, he will see that they get justice, and quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth?¡± (Luke 18:1-8) 
What a wonderful song!  Thank you.
   Let us make the following confession of faith together: ¡°I am happy in Jesus. I am happy and joyful. I am in peace and good health. Everything goes well with me.¡± Greet those around you saying: ¡°Something good will happen to you.¡±
<Introduction>
   Today, I would like to share the message of God under the title, ¡°Always Pray and Do Not Give Up.¡±
 
   Most of you certainly know the disappointment of not having your prayers answered quickly. Jesus told us that we should not become weary while waiting to receive the answer to our prayer, but we should patiently endure until the answer comes.

   I have counseled many people about their faith life over the past fifty years. I've received many questions such as, ¡°Our family attends worship service regularly on Sundays and give tithes to God. Why doesn't God answer my prayers? Others have said, ¡°Although I continue to pray for my husband to be saved, there is no sign of change. What have I done wrong? What should I repent of?¡±

   Sometimes, even though we devote ourselves to a life of faith and prayer, our prayers are not always answered quickly. Therefore, we often times lose heart and become discouraged. If anyone says that they have never experienced disappointment with unanswered prayer, they are not being honest. Even though the answer to our prayer may not come quickly, we should persevere and not give up. We should continue to patiently cry our to God.

¡¡
1). 
   In today¡¯s Scripture, the widow desperately cried out. She had nobody to help her. Her husband was dead and she seems to have had no relatives. Someone had done her wrong, but there was no way for her to be granted  justice against her adversary. Consequently, she had a grudge against that person.
¡¡
   It was not just a passing grudge. It became a type of illness in her mind which was hard to cure. So, the widow went to see a judge in the city. She pleaded with him to grant her justice against her adversary. The judge probably laughed in his heart and thought to himself, ¡°Who are you, for you come to me, asking me to grant you justice against your adversary? Are you in a position of honor or power? Are you wealthy or well-educated?  You have none of these things. I don¡¯t even know why I should be bothered with you.¡± So, this judge disregarded her plea. It was too difficult for the widow to fight against her adversary. This is also true with us. Our adversaries are not people, but the devil, who is the power and influence behind them. 
   
   Ephesians 6:12 says,¡°For our struggle is not against flesh and blood,    
but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this 
dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly   
realms.¡±  
¡¡
   Spiritual forces of evil are manipulating people behind the scenes. We shouldn't hate people because it's the devil who is manipulating them behind the scenes. Unless we are in Jesus, we can fall prey to the devil at anytime, for we are also humans. It is Satan who is doing the evil work of stealing, killing and destroying through people. For this reason, we should not hate people, but should rather drive out our enemy, the devil, in the name of Jesus.  
 
   The devil tries to block our prayers. He not only tries to block our prayers, but also tries to prevent them from reaching heaven. Therefore, the devil is a very persistent and determined enemy. So, when we fight against the devil, we must fight against him with even greater resolve and determination. 

   The widow that Jesus spoke about had a deep grudge in her heart. A grudge is a state of mind in which a person does not easily draw back. She didn't just have an ordinary desire. She had a grudge. A grudge is a kind of desire which is not easily given up on. When you pray to God, you must have a strong desire like a grudge. If you think to yourself, ¡°If God answers my prayer, good. If not, no problem. If God answers my prayer by chance, I am lucky. If God doesn't, oh well.¡± If you truly believe such things in your heart, the devil will absolutely keep your prayers from reaching heaven.  A person with a grudge is determined to cling to their goal and never give up.
 
   1 Samuel 1:10-12 shares the story of a woman with an urgent prayer and supplication. Her name was Hannah, the wife of an Ephraimite, Elkanah. Since she had been childless for a long time, Elkanah took a concubine named Peninnah and she gave birth to a son. Peninnah disregarded Hannah and despised her so much that, Hannah had a grudge against her. It was not just a desire. While she was praying in the temple, she could not pray with her words, for the grudge so filled her heart. Only her lips were moving. 
 
   You may have had this kind of experience before. When you've felt so overburdened with worries that you couldn't say a word. While Eli the priest was watching Hannah, he saw that although her lips were moving, her voice could not be heard. The priest said to Hannah, ¡°Woman, why are you drunk in broad day light? Why are you making a scene in the temple of God? Get rid of your wine. Hannah answered, ¡°Oh, Sir! I am not drunk. I am a woman so heartbroken that I could not make my voice heard because of a strong grudge. If God gives me a son, no razor shall ever touch his head. I will dedicate the son to God. Then the priest said, ¡°Go in peace.¡± 

   The priest was a man who represented the people before God. Therefore, if he prayed for the people, the blessing of God would come to them. From that moment, she washed her face and wiped away her tears. She got dressed up, ate something and became joyful. One year later she gave birth to a son, Samuel, who later became a famous prophet.

   Therefore, the Scripture, ¡°whatever you bind on earth will be bound in 
heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven¡± was fulfilled.  

The Bible says, ¡°You may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it.¡± Words are very important. Therefore, you should pray with a strong grudge in your heart and with a spirit of determination, not easily drawing back. If you pray in such a manner, God will listen to your prayer. The judge disregarded this widow, for she was an empty-handed woman who was neither wealthy, well-educated nor powerful. However, one thing troubled his mind. She was so filled with a grudge that she kept coming and pleading with him day and night. She kept coming to him in the morning, at noon and in the evening, crying out to him. 

   At first he ignored her, but later his heart sank at the sight of her. ¡°Oh, My! She has come again.¡± Later he could no longer stand it. He felt like he was going to have a nervous breakdown. Therefore, Jesus said that the judge made up his mind to give her justice, not because he was a just judge, but she was such a nuisance with her persistently coming and crying out to him. Likewise, our God also wants us to pray prayers with such persistence.
¡¡
2). The Impossible Plea
¡¡
   The impossible plea. The unjust judge could no longer bear the impossible plea. Luke 18:2 says, ¡°He said: ¡®In a certain town there was a judge who neither feared God nor cared about men.¡±

   The judge finally surrendered to the persistent cry of the widow. When facing any circumstances in which you can hardly pray, if you go forward, offering up urgent prayers, God will surely answer. Though it may take time for the answer to come, your prayers will certainly penetrate the power of darkness, overcoming all obstacles.

   The Bible says that for a while, he refused to pay attention to the plea of the widow. For a while, he did not listen, but he could not do it indefinitely. He could not stand it, for she was determined not to draw back. She had made a life and death resolution not to withdraw until she received the answer. The unjust judge could not stand the persistent prayer of the widow. The persistent prayer of the widow drove the unjust judge to despair.
  
  The fact that we haven't yet received an answer to our prayer does not mean that God will not answer. Even though there may be period in which our faith is tested, we should not give up. In the Bible, there was a great servant of God named Daniel. Daniel prayed earnestly to God. On the very first day that Daniel prayed, his prayer was heard. Although his prayer was heard on the very first day that he prayed, the answer did not come until 21 days later. For 21 days, our enemy, the devil and guardian angel of the kingdom of Persia resisted his prayer. However, when Daniel kept praying, God sent Michael, one of the chief princes who was also the captain of God¡¯s heavenly hosts to help destroy the camp of the devil.
 
   Jesus said that the thief only comes to steal, kill and destroy. The devil tries to steal, kill and destroy at any costs, but Jesus came to give you life and give it abundantly. Because of the crucifixion of Jesus, where His body was torn and his blood shed, the name of Jesus Christ and the power of his precious blood is our strong support. 

   Therefore, if we pray relying on the precious blood and the name of Jesus, the fortress of the devil will be destroyed. Unless we pray using the name of Jesus and His precious blood, we will never be victorious in our fight against the devil. The reason why we rely on the name of Jesus is because Jesus fought against the devil at the cross and destroyed all the strongholds of the devil. He destroyed the power of the devil and all his principalities. Therefore, if we pray with determination, relying on Jesus and on his precious blood, the strongholds of the devil will be destroyed. 
   
   If you cry out to God with faith when facing difficulties, though you may walk through the valley of the shadow of death, you will not fall, for the Lord will be with you. The Lord will be your refuge, your fortress and your God in whom you trust. He will cover you under his wings. He is faithful and true. Therefore, if we put our trust in the Lord, we will not fear the terror of the night, nor the arrow that flies by day, nor the pestilence that strikes in the darkness, nor the plague that destroys at midday, but live in peace, for the Lord will be our protector. When you pray for others, you may not receive an answer right away although you pray hard. However, don¡¯t lose heart and draw back. The Bible says, ¡°And will not God bring about justice for his chosen ones, who cry out to him day and night? Will he keep putting them off?
  
   God said that he would bring justice for his chosen people because they had a grudge. You should not pray halfheartedly, but must pray persistently like a man with a grudge. God will certainly answer the prayer of the person who is determined and resolved, harboring desire like a grudge. That is just what Jesus said. He said, ¡°Will not God bring about justice for his chosen ones, who cry out to him day and night? Jesus said that he would bring justice.
   
Mark 9:23 says, ¡°If you can?¡±said Jesus. "Everything is possible for him who believes." 

   Such faith is shown through earnest prayer. If we pray with earnest faith and a dream in our heart, a miracle from God will certainly happen. Many people have asked me, ¡°How do know whether God has answered your prayer or not?¡± If we pray to God earnestly, our hearts will suddenly be filled with great peace. Unimaginable peace and conviction will come into our hearts and we will hear the still, small voice of the Holy Spirit saying, ¡°Your prayer has been answered,¡± or ¡°Your desire has been granted.¡± 

   Such 'rhema' will come into your heart. I have experienced that many times after I've prayed for a long time at home. I pray, kneeling down at least for five hours before I go to preach. When I preach and pray for the sick,  'rhema' comes to my heart along with great joy and peace. People are curious to know how I can know when someone has been healed of a certain type of disease. In those moments, a realization just occurs to me. Since I have a strong conviction and realization of what has happened, I can boldly proclaim it. Then, the person experiences a miraculous healing. Therefore, when you pray, cry out to God until you have the peace of mind that your prayer has been answered and you hear the still, small voice of God.
Jeremiah 33:3 says, ¡°Call to me and I will answer you and tell you great and unsearchable things you do not know.¡±
 When we pray, God¡¯s 'rhema' Word will show us his will. In order to know the will of God we must be patient and wait. 
3. Prayer that God Answers
   Third, in order to have your prayers answered, you must pray with a clear goal in mind. Also, your prayers should be detailed. You should pray with a clear goal and concrete dream. What did the widow say to the unjust judge when she came to him? She said, ¡®Grant me justice against my adversary.¡¯ She said, ¡®my adversary,¡¯ not just some unpleasant person whom she knew, for she had a strong desire to see justice done against her adversary. 
   The goal should be clear and concrete. In the Bible, Bartimaeus, the blind beggar shouted to Jesus, ¡°Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!¡± When Jesus stood before Bartimaeus, he said, ¡°What do you want me to do for you?¡± Then, the blind man answered, ¡°Rabbi, I want to see.¡± ¡°Go,¡± said Jesus, ¡°your faith has healed you.¡± Immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus along the road. You should not only pray with a clear goal and dream but also with determination. Don¡¯t pray vague prayers. If you want to pray accurately, you should write down your prayer requests. When I want to pray with a clear goal, I always write down my prayer requests. I write down what I want God to do for me. 1st, 2nd, 3rd. Afterward, I pray with a loud voice, visualizing the fulfillment of the things I have prayed for. Then, I feel much vitality and life in my prayer. 
   And you must bother God. How can you bother God? You should always pray intensely with a loud voice unto God. You should not quit after the first or second time of prayer. You should continue to ¡°annoy¡± God. You should cry loud enough to bother God. Early morning prayer, all night prayer, fasting and prayer and prayer at prayer mountain. These are the type of prayers that bother God. 
Luke 18:4-5 says, ¡°For some time he refused. But finally he said to himself, ¡®Even though I don¡¯t fear God or care what people think, 5 yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will see that she gets justice, so that she won¡¯t eventually come and attack me!¡± 
Jesus said that the judge saw that the widow would get justice because she bothered him, bringing trouble to him. God wants you to pray persistently enough to bother Him.
When you pray, you may sometimes have to be stubborn. In Luke 11:5, Jesus shows us how stubborn we should be. A friend came to a man at night and the man had nothing to set before his friend. He needed three loaves of bread, but it was late. The Bible says ¡®at midnight,¡¯ which means that it was probably between 12 and 2 o¡¯clock in the morning. His neighbor had bread and was rich, but he didn¡¯t have any bread. He went to his neighbor¡¯s house and knocked on the door saying, ¡°Hello! Hello! I am  your neighbor. A friend of mine came to me at night and I have nothing to set before him. Lend me three loaves of bread.¡± Then, his neighbor answered, ¡°Since I have finished my work, I am already in bed with my children. Please come back tomorrow morning. I¡¯ll give you bread tomorrow morning.¡± ¡°But, my friend is starving now. Please give me some bread now.¡± ¡°No, I can¡¯t do it. I am in bed.¡± ¡°Please, give me bread now.¡± ¡°Go away.¡± ¡°Give me three loaves of bread.¡± ¡°Bread!¡± ¡°Bread!¡± ¡°Bread!¡± ¡°Oh, My!¡± ¡°I am afraid that unless I give him some bread, I will lose a lot of sleep, that my children will be woken up from their sleep, for he keeps crying, ¡°Bread,¡± ¡°Bread.¡± So, the Bible says that he got up and gave him three loaves of bread. 
Let us read Luke 11:5 together, Then he said to them, Suppose one of you have a friend, and he goes to him at midnight and say, ¡®Friend, lend me three loaves of bread, because a friend of mine on a journey has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him.¡¯ ¡°Then the one inside answers, ¡®Don¡¯t bother me. The door is already locked, and my children are with me in bed. I can¡¯t get up and give you anything.¡¯ I tell you, though he will not get up and give you the bread because he is his friend, yet because of the man¡¯s boldness he will get up and give you as much as he needs.¡± 
¡¡How greatly must God value persistent prayer that he told the parables of the persistent widow and the man who came at midnight asking for three loaves of bread? It is because God wants us to be persistent and stubborn in prayer, not drawing back.
Isaiah 43:1-4 says, ¡°But now, this is what the Lord says-he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel: ¡®Fear not, for I have redeemed you; I have summoned you by name; you are mine. Since you are precious and honored in my sight, and because I love you, I will give men in exchange for you, and people in exchange for your life.¡±
   God said, ¡°I have redeemed you.¡± It is not that you have delivered yourself. I have called you by name and you are mine. The Bible says, ¡°Since you are precious and honored in my sight.¡± Therefore, you are very precious to the Lord. You shouldn't allow yourself to have an inferiority complex, nor be scared by the false accusations of the devil.
John 15:16 says, ¡°You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you to go and bear fruit ?fruit that will last. Then the Father will give you whatever you ask in my name.¡±
  Therefore, although the devil attacks you with false accusations, do not be afraid, for Jesus has chosen you and He wants you to bear fruit. If we ask in the name of Jesus, God will surely answer our prayer. ¡°Away from me, Satan!¡± If you oppose the devil, though he may have come in one direction, he will flee in the seven directions.
   God is not an unjust judge. He is not a bad judge. God is a good God. God is a God of love. Even the unjust judge surrendered to the desperate appeal of the widow and gave her justice. Then, how much more will God who loves you and hears the prayers of believers? He will not keep putting you off. Don¡¯t give up or draw back.
   At this very moment you must believe that God has given you great love and grace through Jesus Christ. Be strong and of good courage. Don¡¯t fall into self-pity saying, ¡°Poor me!¡± You are a child of God. You are strong. God has given you power. Since God has called you to bear fruit, it is quite natural that you should bear fruit in your prayer life. It is natural that your prayers will be answered. Therefore, you should not lose heart.
   In order for your prayers to be answered you must believe that God is good and you must believe wholeheartedly that God will solve your problems and grudges. Boldly confess it with your mouth. You shouldn't give up on your cherished dream but should move forward with the type of firm faith that God loves. The answer to your prayer will come. Your dream will certainly come true. God will bless you. Everything will go with you and you will be in good health as your soul prospers. Continue to trust in God who has given you hope and a dream. Faith is not about believing in present realities. It is about believing in those things that are not as though they were.
   Every problem can be solved through prayer. Often times, we pray without faith. That is why our problems are not solved. The Bible says, you do not have because you do not ask. When you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, not with faith. Ask and it shall be given. God does not say that he will give it to you if you do nothing. 
   He says, ¡°seek and you will find, knock and the door will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives; he who seeks finds; and to him who knocks, the door will be opened. If your son asks for bread, will you give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will you give him a serpent? If you, then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good gifts to those who ask him!¡± A good God wants to give you good gifts. I pray that all of you may receive answers to your prayers.
Let us pray.
¡¡Dear Heavenly Father, You are a good God and we know that you are waiting for us to ask you, seek you and cry out to you. The devil discourages us and tries to block our prayers from reaching heaven, but if we cry out to You and pray with stubborn faith and a dream, not giving up, we believe that the strongholds of the devil will surely be destroyed and the answer will come.
¡¡Dear Heavenly Father, help us to experience Your abundant blessings through persistent prayer and to live for your glory until we go to heaven.
¡¡In Jesus¡¯ name we pray. Amen.
¡¡
¡¡
   
1


