Today I would like to share the grace of God under the title, “Call to Me and I Will Answer You.” The Lord wants us to be qualified to receive God’s answer to our prayers. We don't know when insoluble problems will occur in our lives. Whenever we face problems, we cannot but start to pray in our hearts. Since we are not almighty, there is no one who can say, “I am okay even in the midst of difficulties.” Rev. Charles Spurgeon said, “It is much better to pray for 10 minutes than to worry for 10 years in order to solve problems.” A prayer is like holding onto God’s hand by lifting up both of our hands high, hoping for the help of God. 

Psalm 91:15 says, “He will call upon me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him.” 

Also, Isaiah 65:24 shows us how earnestly God wants to answer us in that He answers us even before we ask! Isaiah 65:24 says, “Before they call I will answer; while they are still speaking I will hear.” 

How wonderful if God answers us even before we call Him! How awesome if God gives us the way to go and answers before we even ask Him! The Scripture says that God wants to answer us so much that He answers even before we call. Therefore, we must know that God gives all His ears to answer our prayer when we pray and cry out to Him. In order to receive an answer from God, we should prepare our hearts. Today I want to talk about this preparation before God.

First, we must destroy the barrier between God and us. We must not just repeat, “Please answer my prayer,” but rather say, “Destroy the barrier of sin that is an impediment between God and me.” We should be reconciled with God. There will be no answer as long as we are enemies to God. Therefore, we should demolish the barrier of sins between God and us. 

2 Chronicles 7:14 says, “If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land.” 

If we remove any barrier between God and us, we can receive answers from Him.

Psalm 66:18 says, “If I had cherished sin in my heart, the Lord would not have listened.”

God hates sins so much that if we come before Him with sins in our hearts, He cannot be pleased with us. 

Psalm 51:17 says, “The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.”

Even after we commit sins, if we repent of our sins beating our hearts, struggling, and crying out with broken hearts, God never turns His head from us. He forgives us our sins and heals our hurts. 

In addition to our sins and iniquities, there are disobeyed obligations. For example, on our birthday party, we usually skip church worship service and enjoy the party instead. “What kind of sin did I commit?” You may ask, but you violate the obligation of “Remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy.” “Give the whole tithe to God!” However, you may say, “Now is the economic recession period! How can we obey this obligation of tithe even if God asks us? Perhaps He will turn a blind eye to a tithe,” and fail in this obligation. This can be a barrier between God and you.

In addition, there is another mental attitude that brings a barrier to block a relationship between God and us. When we have committed sin, we tend to make excuses if God asks us to repent of our sins through the Holy Spirit. We love to justify each one of our sins and deny them. If we refuse to repent of our sins and make excuses, God will desert us. On the contrary, if we repent of our sins, God will forgive any huge sins, while if we keep making excuses and blame others for even a seemingly small sin, God will curse us!

1 John 1:9 says, “If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness.”

God loves the self-confession of our sins.

Secondly, we must make a clear goal in our prayer instead of an indefinite goal. When we use a magnifying glass to penetrate paper, if we focus on one point, there will be smoke, fire and ultimately a hole will appear on the paper. In the same way, a prayer should also be focused. If you want to receive an answer from God, as I have always emphasized, first write the exact numbers or put your goal on the wall and then focus on it in your prayer! If you pray this or that or repeat anything aimlessly, it won’t be answered at all! At the age of 75, Abraham got out of Ur of the Chaldeans and prayed for 10 years for a son, but he didn’t receive an answer until he was 85 years old. It was because he prayed without focus. He prayed for this and that without a specific goal. Then one day God called him out of his tent at evening. As he got out of his tent, God He took him outside and said, "Look up at the heavens. What do you see?” 
“I see stars!” 
“How many stars are there?” 
“I see inumerable stars!” 
“So shall your offspring be.” 
“You should look up at the heavens and focus on the stars.” 
“God, You promise my offspring shall be like the stars. Please give me a son!” If you concentrate on your prayer, amazingly you can have faith with ease. Some people say, “No matter how much I pray, I can’t have faith!” But it is because they do not use the law of visualization. If you keep looking at what you want to receive, you will have faith in your heart. If God’s mighty power manifests through faith, your farming will succeed, your business will prosper, and your hospital will thrive. Faith itself is an invisible power of miraculous creation. You already have faith. It exists in your heart. If you dream a dream, you can easily have faith. Abraham believed the Lord when looking at the stars. Therefore, you must draw a picture of your wish and then always focus on it. When you dream what you desire, you can have faith. Some complain, “I can’t have any dream.” What is a dream? Your desire is your dream. If you wish some goal with a burning desire, it will turn into a dream. There is no person without a dream. If you want something today, it will be changed into your dream. 
Your desire is an artist that always draws your dream. If you have this burning desire, it will draw a marvelous picture in your heart. It will draw your dream. Therefore, if you have a desire, it brings about your dream; if you have that dream, you will have faith. Then the Lord will say, “It will be done according to your faith.” I say that something good will happen to you. You already have unimaginable power and strength within you. When you read the Bible and pray, if you have a burning desire in your heart, it will change into your dream which will bring faith to you. If you proclaim a creative message with your mouth, you will become a giant of faith. Today some people think Christianity is just one of the religions, but true Christianity is not a religion at all. Christianity is an enormous power to make one a wholly new person, bring about a big change, and arouse a work of life. Christianity is not a religion, but gives us power to change our prayers into powerful prayers in our hearts and brings about a great transformation that changes us, our neighbors, our homes, our daily lives, and furthermore brings mighty change around us.
Therefore, to activate the work of faith, first have a clear goal and never be aimless or disruptive. Genesis 15:5 shows that Abraham focused on his dream as he looked at the stars without being disruptive any more. 

Philippians 2:13 says, “for it is God who works in you to will and to act according to his good purpose.” 

If you act with a burning desire in your heart, the Lord will willingly help you. If you desire something, you will dream of it. Then the Lord will bless you. Dreams and visions make our desire to become an artist to draw a picture in our hearts.
Even today if you have concentrated desire in your heart and pray with it, you will have faith. Then you should keep praying focusing on that dream, faith will continue to fill your heart and then the Lord will say, “It will be done according to your faith.” A wonderful power will arise within you. If you have a gush of faith with your dream, everything will be fulfilled! 

Romans 4:19-21 says, “Without weakening in his faith, he faced the fact that his body was as good as dead--since he was about a hundred years old--and that Sarah's womb was also dead. Yet he did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God, but was strengthened in his faith and gave glory to God, being fully persuaded that God had power to do what he had promised.” 

Therefore, if you have a burning desire and look at your dream and believe your dream to be fulfilled and confess your faith with your mouth, miracles will start to appear. I pray that you will experience miracles and have faith. You should meet God in person and experience more miracles. Then you can have a definite proof of your faith and more strengthened faith.

Keep in mind that a prayer needs patience. When a poor widow went to an unjust judge with the plea, “Grant me justice against my adversary.” For some time he refused. But as this widow kept coming to him and fell down in front of his house and pleaded every day, “Grant me justice against my adversary,” he could not bear it any more. Finally he said to himself, Even though I don't fear God or care about men, yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will see that she gets justice.”
And the Lord said, "And will not God bring about justice for his chosen ones, who cry out to him day and night? Will he keep putting them off? He will see that they get justice, and quickly.” As the devil resists persistently, we must have patience in our prayer to win over him. When Daniel prayed before God to know what to do during the slavery of the Israelites, God sent an archangel to speedily answer Daniel’s prayer. Thus the archangel went down from heaven, but the devil resisted him twenty-one days. Then Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help him on the twenty first day so Gabriel penetrated the armies of the devil to respond to Daniel. Your prayers are usually detained in the air by the devil. If you persevere with prayer, sometimes it will take twenty-one days like Daniel or three years. Anyway, you should not succumb to the devil in your prayer. I pray that you will be patient like what Hebrews 10:38 says, “But my righteous one will live by faith. And if he shrinks back, I will not be pleased with him." 
As God will answer you with sureness, you should not shrink back at all.

When you pray, if you have faith in your heart and it holds you fast, you must pray with faith. God wants to help you, you’d better believe that your prayer has already been answered and give thanks to God in advance.

Isaiah 65:24 says, “Before they call I will answer; while they are still speaking I will hear.”

Philippians 4:6 says, “Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God.”

John 14:13-14 says, “And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. You may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it.”

Therefore, you have not used God-given treasure until now. It is your faith! 
Jesus said, “Whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it.” 

“Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.”(Mark 11:24) 

Hebrews 11:6 says, “And without faith it is impossible to please God, because anyone who comes to him must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who earnestly seek him.”

When we demolish the barrier between God and us, are reconciled with Him, recognize faith treasure in our hearts as priceless treasure, think of the treasure positively, dream of it, believe it, confess it with our mouths and move forward with it, not worldly power but heavenly power will be connected with us and miracles will happen. Some miraculous work will happen in our lives which is far beyond our imagination. It is because the Lord keeps saying, “It will be done according to your faith! It will be done according to your faith.” You can experience the marvelous work of God in your life.
