Today I would like to share the grace of God under the title, “What Is Faith Like?” Just as there is salt in all the food we eat, there must be faith in every aspect of our lives. By using faith we can securely understand all the things in our lives. Then how much do we know about faith? 

Who gives us faith? You might have asked yourself this question. In the Bible, Romans 12:3 says, “Do not think of yourself more highly than you ought, but you should think of yourself with sober judgment, in accordance with the faith God has distributed to each of you.” 

The Bible states that God has already distributed the proper faith to each of us.
We have been given this faith since birth. Faith should be added as we need to strengthen every aspect of our lives. As God has given us our essential physical features at birth, faith has been also given to us by Him. 

Ephesians 2:8 says, “For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith&#8212;and this is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God.”

Faith is given to us as a gift by God and through it we can accept His only Son, Jesus Christ, as our Savior and receive salvation. 

Mike Mason is the gold medal winner of the American Publishers Association, but he was brought up suffering from depression and he had doubts about his life since childhood. One day, he read Philippians 4:4. “Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again: Rejoice!” Since then he began to test whether or not he could live with joy. He firmly decided to rejoice in the Lord for 90 days. Then enormous changes took place in his life. During that period he made efforts to be joyful in the Lord and then depression and fear actually disappeared and joy continued to pour in! Thus he applied not only the word “rejoice” but also other words such as “pray continually” or “give thanks in all circumstances” to his life and he lives a happy life now. 

Jesus promised, “No one will take away your joy” (John 16:22). When we are determined to live with faith and move forward, a marvelous power of faith will come! 

Is faith big or small? Some may ask, “Why is that person’s faith big while mine is little?” However, the least of all faith is compared to a mustard seed. 

Matthew 17:20 says, “He replied, ‘Because you have so little faith. Truly I tell you, if you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you.”

This explains the power of faith. From God’s perspective, a tiny mustard seed has a mountain moving power. Therefore, in reality, we have mighty power in our hearts! It has power that can move some difficult problems with ease!
Sadly, we do not recognize it. Haven’t you ever seen a mustard seed? Please, raise your hand if you have seen the mustard seed! Yes, many of you have seen it. For those who never saw it, during the early morning prayer meeting, I put some of them on my Bible. I let the congregation line up and move forward one by one to see them. One senior deaconess came forward and complained that she could not see anything. So I took my Bible and put it under her eyes and said, “Here you are! Look at this!” “I can’t still see it!” 

Because of her breath, all of them flew away! I was upset and said, “Senior deaconess, you should have been more careful! You just blew them away!” She said, “Oh, pastor, I am so sorry!” Then the Holy Spirit told me, “Don’t be upset! The mustard seeds are blown away by this lady’s whisper, and so, how tiny and little they are! If only you have faith like a mustard seed, you already have the mighty power to cast the mountain into the seas!” If we Christians could develop this little faith, we should not despair in the midst of hard and difficult problems! 

Then how can we develop our faith? Faith will be strengthened by the fullness of the Holy Spirit when we read the Word of God.

Romans 10:17 says, “Consequently, faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word about Christ.”

Please repeat after me, “Consequently, faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word about Christ.”

We believe the Word of Jesus and nothing else! Therefore, listen carefully to His Word and hold onto it; it will motivate your faith! 

Romans 10:17 says, “Consequently, faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word about Christ.” “For through the Spirit we eagerly await by faith the righteousness for which we hope” (Galatians 5:5).

We are acted upon by the Holy Spirit and faith. When the Holy Spirit comes, He activates our faith. Furthermore, faith will grow when we endure and overcome our difficulties. If we are determined to live by faith and endure all hardships in faith and patience and give thanks to God and pray, our faith will grow enormously! 

Hebrews 10:38 says, “But my righteous one will live by faith. And I take no pleasure in the one who shrinks back.”

When difficult circumstances attack us, we should believe, pray, and endure persistently. If we give up our faith and retreat, God will not be pleased with us. Therefore, faith moves forward through patience. When we conquer hardships, our faith will be strengthened and God will pour His well-prepared reward upon us!

Hebrews 11 numerates countless ancestors of faith, and the verse 6 says the following.

“And without faith it is impossible to please God, because anyone who comes to him must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who earnestly seek him.”

When we are firmly rooted in the Word of God, our faith will become a genuine faith. A few days ago, China was struck by a huge typhoon with the greatest rainfall in 100 years and suffered massive damages: gigantic trees were uprooted and a big iron building was toppled to the ground. When the storm strikes, a tree is uprooted because it is not deeply rooted. A deep-rooted tree won’t be uprooted even by a great storm. We Christians cannot live without experiencing the winds of change and competition all the time. The stormy wind must blow even to our lives. However, if we are rooted deeply in the Word of God, even tornado or tsunami can’t topple us. Whether we have faith or not is the most important thing! 

Jesus said, “Therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock. The rain came down, the streams rose, and the winds blew and beat against that house; yet it did not fall, because it had its foundation on the rock. But everyone who hears these words of mine and does not put them into practice is like a foolish man who built his house on sand. The rain came down, the streams rose, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell with a great crash” (Matthew 7:24-27).

Therefore, we must always listen to and act upon by the Word of God. When we listen to and act upon by the Word of God, our faith will grow and be strengthened.

Having faith in our hearts, we must practice it in our daily lives. Even though it is invisible, inaudible, or untouchable, we must believe and move forward with our bold faith.

Pastor Charles Spurgeon said, “What we ought to do before God is not having a calculating faith but an absolute faith. Calculation belongs to God only.” If we begin calculating whether we can make it or not, doubt will come into our hearts and minds. If we keep doubting and say “I will be in a big trouble if it does not work. Can it be done?” we will be ruined! On the contrary, if we commit everything to God no matter what happens, faith will start to work right away!

“If I perish, I perish! I don’t care even if something bad happens. Let’s do it.”
We should be firmly determined by faith. Then faith will work for us.
No one either enjoys or welcomes hardships and difficulties in life. However, when we overcome and move forward in spite of them, our faith will become much stronger. Conquer suffering and move forward with faith.

You should always consider the power of faith as the mountain moving power.
If the devil approaches you saying, “You don’t have any faith. There is no faith in you!” you must answer, “I have a mountain moving faith!” “Have faith in God,” Jesus answered. “Truly I tell you, if anyone says to this mountain.” Jesus didn’t say that only pastors can say this but “anyone whether man and woman, old and young, rich and poor, noble and miserable.” “‘Go, throw yourself into the sea,’ and does not doubt in their heart but believes that what they say will happen, it will be done for them. Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.” What a marvelous passage! “And when you stand praying, if you hold anything against anyone, forgive them, so that your Father in heaven may forgive you your sins” (Mark 11:22-25).

If we say to a huge mountain to go and throw itself into the sea and then believe it without doubting, it will be done accordingly. Faith can be activated with ease. Hatred against others is the only obstacle to faith; we must forgive others. We should not hold anything against them but have faith instead. When we realize that faith has the mountain moving power, we can be much bolder than before. As we move forward in faith and try to move the mountain, doubt will surely follow us. Then we should recognize that as long as there is faith, doubt will follow. If not, there will be no doubt at all. If we don’t have any faith, the devil would not harass us. 

Therefore, whenever doubt happens, you should recognize that sure faith already exists in you. “Satan, because I have faith, you follow me to steal it. But it is to no avail. In the name of Jesus, go away!” “Truly I tell you, if anyone says to this mountain, ‘Go, throw yourself into the sea,’ and does not doubt in their heart but believes that what they say will happen, it will be done for them.”

In order to remove doubt, you must hold onto your faith strongly and confess it with your mouth. The power that holds our faith together comes from our mouth confession. Even if doubt happens, please don’t say, “I cannot but doubt. I fear doubt.” Do not be compromised by doubt, but resist to the end with firm faith saying, “‘By his stripes I am healed!’ You devil, my enemy! Go away! I do not fear your lies. Since I have a healing faith, you try to steal it from me, but I command you in the name of Jesus. Go away!”

“Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.” God calls the things that are not as though they were. “I am healed. I am blessed. I am healthy.” When we dream we will receive answer to our prayer and believe it and command it with our mouths, we can overcome any disturbance of the devil and become more than conquerors. 

If we overcome doubt and keep believing, miracles will happen.

Romans 4:20-21 says, “Yet he did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God, but was strengthened in his faith and gave glory to God, being fully persuaded that God had power to do what he had promised.”

Hebrews 11:6 says, “And without faith it is impossible to please God, because anyone who comes to him must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who earnestly seek him.”

It commands us to have a dream that in our hearts a mountain is thrown into the sea. Have a mountain moving dream. Anyone can have this dream. 

Psalm 145:19 says, “He fulfills the desires of those who fear him; he hears their cry and saves them.”

As our God fulfills our desires, we must have a mountain moving dream.
And then we ought to command the mountain to move! 

Numbers 14:28 says, “So tell them, ‘As surely as I live, declares the Lord, I will do to you the very thing I heard you say.’” 

God will work according to what we say before God. Therefore, with boldness, we must issue a mountain moving command and say, “Poverty, go away! Sufferings, be gone. We are healed from the disease. Sorrows and sufferings, be gone!” We must issue a mountain moving command.

Psalm 21:2 says, “You have granted him his heart’s desire and have not withheld the request of his lips.”

When we boldly speak out our desires with our mouths, God will fulfill it. We must have a mountain moving dream. First of all, we should have a dream. When there is no vision, the people perish. However, when we have a dream, it can come to pass.

Because of our dream and faith that give us assurance that we are going to succeed, miracles will happen. You should have a dream! People rarely have a dream. You can prosper spiritually, materially, and physically. Read the Bible. Jesus was crucified on the cross and His body was torn, shedding His blood to make us a forgiven people of God, who are healed, healthy and blessed. We can lend to others, but never borrow from them. You will go to heaven as God’s people so you need to dream, believe, and speak forth saying, “Now I become who I am.” By faith, you can make yourself renewed wholly. We should not be defeated or despaired in our lives, feeling like nobody. With dream and faith, when we confess with our mouths, unimaginable works of God will be done for us.

What does the Lord say to you? “Why are you so afraid? Do you still have no faith?” The Lord has already given faith to each one of us. You have faith. You can use your faith. By reading the Word of God, your faith will grow; the Holy Spirit will make your faith grow and endure any trials and sufferings so that it can grow much stronger than before. Your little faith like a mustard seed will grow and become big faith like an apple. Those who are suffering in the world urgently need your help. Don’t confine your faith within your selfish standards, but pray for your neighbors. Then your prayer will produce mighty miracles!

We Christians receive God’s grace and are forgiven, and later, we go to heaven. We have the faith of salvation. However, today we have not only this faith of salvation but also a faith of healing and health, of material prosperity, and of good deeds that are well recognized by God. Faith can be used in various aspects. You should not live without faith, but have faith all the time. Since God has given you faith at birth, you need to confirm your faith always. As faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word about Christ, we ought to read the Word of God all the time to make our faith grow. We must believe the Word of God. Faith is not what we can make of it, but comes from believing in the Word of God. Therefore, when our faith grows through the Word of God, the grace of the Holy Spirit comes to accelerate its growth. Faith develops through the Word of God and the Holy Spirit and grows much more when we pray. By faith various trials and tribulations can be overcome.  Therefore, we Christians must continue to read the Word of God, be filled with the Holy Spirit, endure trials, and experience many things; when our faith grows, we along with our neighbors can have a mature faith. Faith is the most precious thing! The greatest treasure! 

Based on our faith, we must have a dream. First of all, we must have a dream of what we desire with a specific purpose. We must imagine and visualize the fulfillment of our dream in our hearts and minds. As we look up to see the rainbow in the sky, we must look up and see our dream. Our dream may be big or small; however, it is faith that accomplishes our dream! Abraham dreamed of having countless descendants like the stars in the sky and believed it. You should also have a dream of your desire being accomplished and look upon it and believe it. “I believe! I believe that God will fulfill it.” And then you should speak the thing that is not as though it were with your mouth. “Be quiet, wind! Be still, waves! Disease, go away! Business, be prosperous!” You must command them creatively!

You ought to remember these three steps! Please repeat after me, “First, have a dream! Secondly, believe. Thirdly, confess with your mouth.” 
Look up and see your dream and believe it and confess it with your mouth. Through these three steps your faith will grow and it is activated to perform miracles. We Christians rarely experience miracles nowadays. However, through miracles you can meet God. Your faith will grow! Our faith is not just one religion of many worldly religions. We are experiencing the work of God in our daily lives. Thus we can create the miracle of spiritual, material, and physical prosperity and abundant life. God is with us now and expecting to accomplish what we dream, believe, and command with our mouth. 


 


